--- PÁGINA 1 ---
Circulation
CLINICAL PRACTICE GUIDELINES
2025 ACC/AHA/ACEP/NAEMSP/SCAI
Guideline for the Management of Patients
With Acute Coronary Syndromes: A Report of
the American College of Cardiology/American
Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical
Practice Guidelines
Developed in Collaboration With and Endorsed by the American College of Emergency Physicians, National Association of EMS
Physicians, and Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions
Writing Committee Members*
Sunil V. Rao, MD, FACC, FSCAI, Chair; Michelle L. O’Donoghue, MD, MPH, FACC, FAHA, Vice Chair;
Marc Ruel, MD, MPH, FACC, FAHA, Vice Chair; Tanveer Rab, MD, FACC, MSCAI, JC Liaison†;
Jaqueline E. Tamis-Holland, MD, FACC, FAHA, FSCAI, JC Liaison†; John H. Alexander, MD, MHS, FACC, FAHA;
Usman Baber, MD, MS, FACC, FSCAI; Heather Baker, EdD‡; Mauricio G. Cohen, MD, FACC, FSCAI;
Mercedes Cruz-Ruiz, CHWI‡; Leslie L. Davis, PhD, RN, ANP-BC, FACC, FAHA; James A. de Lemos, MD, FACC, FAHA;
Tracy A. DeWald, PharmD, MHS, BCPS-AQ Cardiology; Islam Y. Elgendy, MD, FACC, FAHA, FSCAI;
Dmitriy N. Feldman, MD, FACC, FSCAI§; Abhinav Goyal, MD, MHS, FACC, FAHA; Ijeoma Isiadinso, MD, MPH, FACC;
Venu Menon, MD, FACC, FAHA; David A. Morrow, MD, MPH, FACC, FAHA; Debabrata Mukherjee, MD, MS, FACC, FAHA, MSCAI;
Elke Platz, MD, MS, FACEP; Susan B. Promes, MD, MBA, FACEP‖; Sigrid Sandner, MD, MS; Yader Sandoval, MD, FACC, FSCAI;
Rachel Schunder, MA¶; Binita Shah, MD, MS; Jason P. Stopyra, MD, MS#; Amy W. Talbot, MPH¶; Pam R. Taub, MD, FACC;
Marlene S. Williams, MD, FACC**
Aim: The “2025 ACC/AHA/ACEP/NAEMSP/SCAI Guideline for the Management of Patients With Acute Coronary
Syndromes” incorporates new evidence since the “2013 ACCF/AHA Guideline for the Management of ST-Elevation
Myocardial Infarction” and the corresponding “2014 AHA/ACC Guideline for the Management of Patients With Non–ST-
Elevation Acute Coronary Syndromes” and the “2015 ACC/AHA/SCAI Focused Update on Primary Percutaneous Coronary
Intervention for Patients With ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction.” The “2025 ACC/AHA/ACEP/NAEMSP/SCAI Guideline
for the Management of Patients With Acute Coronary Syndromes” and the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary
Artery Revascularization” retire and replace, respectively, the “2016 ACC/AHA Guideline Focused Update on Duration of
Dual Antiplatelet Therapy in Patients With Coronary Artery Disease.”
*Writing committee members are required to recuse themselves from voting on sections to which their specific relationships with industry may apply; see Appendix 1 for
detailed information. †ACC/AHA Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines liaison. ‡Lay stakeholder/patient representative. §Society for Cardiovascular Angiography
and Interventions representative. ‖American College of Emergency Physicians representative. ¶ACC/AHA joint staff representative. #National Association of EMS Physi-
cians representative. **ACC/AHA Joint Committee on Performance Measures representative.
Peer Review Committee Members and AHA/ACC Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines Members, see page e833.
The American Heart Association requests that this document be cited as follows: Rao SV, O’Donoghue ML, Ruel M, Rab T, Tamis-Holland JE, Alexander JH, Baber U,
Baker H, Cohen MG, Cruz-Ruiz M, Davis LL, de Lemos JA, DeWald TA, Elgendy IY, Feldman DN, Goyal A, Isiadinso I, Menon V, Morrow DA, Mukherjee D, Platz E, Promes
SB, Sandner S, Sandoval Y, Schunder R, Shah B, Stopyra JP, Talbot AW, Taub PR, Williams MS. 2025 ACC/AHA/ACEP/NAEMSP/SCAI Guideline for the management
of patients with acute coronary syndromes: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. doi: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
© 2025 by the American College of Cardiology Foundation and the American Heart Association, Inc.
Circulation is available at www.ahajournals.org/journal/circ
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e771
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 2 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Methods: A comprehensive literature search was conducted from July 2023 to April 2024. Clinical studies, systematic reviews
and meta-analyses, and other evidence conducted on human participants were identified that were published in English
from MEDLINE (through PubMed), EMBASE, the Cochrane Library, Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, and other
selected databases relevant to this guideline.
Structure: Many recommendations from previously published guidelines have been updated with new evidence, and new
recommendations have been created when supported by published data.
Key Words: AHA Scientific Statements ◼ acute coronary syndrome(s) ◼ angina, unstable ◼ anticoagulants ◼ aspirin ◼ atrial fibrillation
◼ cardiovascular diseases ◼ coronary artery disease ◼ coronary syndrome ◼ emergency medical services ◼ EMS ◼ fibrinolytic agents
◼ hemorrhage ◼ major adverse cardiovascular events ◼ morphine ◼ myocardial infarction ◼ non–ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction
◼ percutaneous coronary intervention ◼ prehospital ◼ revascularization ◼ risk ◼ ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction
◼ time factors ◼ treatment outcome
TABLE OF CONTENTS 4.3.4. Intravenous Glycoprotein
IIb/IIIa Inhibitors ...............e793
Abstract ........................................e771
4.4. Parenteral Anticoagulation .............e794
Top Take-Home Messages .......................e773
4.5. Lipid Management .....................e797
Preamble .......................................e774
4.6. Beta-Blocker Therapy ................. e800
1. Introduction .................................e775
4.7. Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone
1.1. Methodology and Evidence Review .....e775
System Inhibitors ..................... e800
1.2. Composition of the Writing
5. STEMI Management: Reperfusion
Committee ............................e776
Strategies .................................. e801
1.3. Guideline Review and Approval .........e776
5.1. Regional Systems of STEMI Care ...... e801
1.4. Scope of the Guideline .................e776
5.2. Reperfusion at PCI-Capable
1.5. Class of Recommendation and
Hospitals ............................. e803
Level of Evidence ......................e777
5.2.1. PPCI in STEMI ................ e803
1.6. Abbreviations ..........................e778
5.2.2. Urgent CABG Surgery ......... e804
2. Overview of ACS ............................e779
5.3. Reperfusion at Non–PCI-Capable
2.1. Definition and Classification of ACS ....e779
Hospitals ............................. e804
3. Initial Evaluation and Management of
5.3.1. Timing and Choice of Agent
Suspected ACS ............................ e780
for Fibrinolytic Therapy ........ e805 3.1. Initial Assessment of Suspected
ACS ................................. e780 5.3.2. Coronary Angiography and
3.1.1. Prehospital Assessment and PCI After Fibrinolytic
Management Considerations Therapy ....................... e806
for Suspected ACS ............ e780 6. NSTE-ACS: Routine Invasive or Selective
3.1.2. Initial In-Hospital Assessment Invasive Initial Approach ..................... e807
of Patients With Confirmed or 6.1. Rationale and Timing for a Routine
Suspected ACS ................e782 Invasive or Selective Invasive
3.1.3. Risk Stratification Tools for Approach ............................ e807
Patients With STEMI and 7. Catheterization Laboratory Considerations
NSTE-ACS ....................e785 in ACS ..................................... e810
3.2. Management of Patients Presenting 7.1. Vascular Access Approach for PCI ..... e810
With Cardiac Arrest ................... e786 7.2. Use of Aspiration Thrombectomy ...... e811
4. Standard Medical Therapies for STEMI 7.3. Use of Intracoronary Imaging .......... e811
and NSTE-ACS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .e787 7.4. Management of Multivessel CAD
4.1. Oxygen Therapy .......................e787 in ACS ............................... e812
4.2. Analgesics ............................e787 7.4.1. Management of Multivessel
4.3. Antiplatelet Therapy .................. e788 CAD in STEMI ................ e812
4.3.1. Aspirin ........................ e788 7.4.2. Management of Multivessel
4.3.2. Oral P2Y12 Inhibitors During CAD in NSTE-ACS ............ e814
Hospitalization ................ e789 8. Cardiogenic Shock Management ............ e815
4.3.3. Intravenous P2Y12 8.1. Revascularization in ACS With
Inhibition .......................e792 Cardiogenic Shock ................... e815
e772 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 3 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
8.2. MCS in Patients With ACS and ACS who are scheduled for an invasive strat-
Cardiogenic Shock ................... e816 egy with timing of angiography to be >24 hours,
9. ACS Complications ......................... e818 upstream treatment with clopidogrel or ticagrelor
9.1. Mechanical Complications ............. e818 may be considered to reduce major adverse car-
9.2. Electrical Complications and diovascular events.
Prevention of Sudden Cardiac 2. Dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and an oral
Death After ACS ..................... e819 P2Y12 inhibitor is indicated for at least 12 months
9.3. Pericarditis Management After MI ..... e820 as the default strategy in patients with ACS who
9.4. Management of LV Thrombus are not at high bleeding risk. Several strategies
After MI .............................. e821 are available to reduce bleeding risk in patients
10. In-hospital Issues in the Management of with ACS who have undergone PCI and require
ACS ....................................... e821 antiplatelet therapy: (a) in patients at risk for gas-
10.1. Cardiac Intensive Care Unit ........... e821 trointestinal bleeding, a proton pump inhibitor is
10.2. Management of Anemia in ACS ....... e822 recommended; (b) in patients who have tolerated
10.3. Telemetry and Length of Stay .......... e822 dual antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor, transi-
10.4. Noninvasive Diagnostic Testing tion to ticagrelor monotherapy is recommended
Prior to Hospital Discharge ............ e823 ≥1 month after PCI; or (c) in patients who require
10.5. Discharge Planning ................... e823 long-term anticoagulation, aspirin discontinua-
10.5.1. Patient Education ............. e823 tion is recommended 1 to 4 weeks after PCI with
10.5.2. Postdischarge Follow-Up continued use of a P2Y12 inhibitor (preferably
and Systems of Care clopidogrel).
Coordination .................. e824 3. High-intensity statin therapy is recommended for
10.5.3. Cardiac Rehabilitation ......... e824 all patients with ACS, and with the option to initi-
ate concurrent ezetimibe. A nonstatin lipid-lower-
11. Discharge: Long-Term Management and
ing agent (eg, ezetimibe, evolocumab, alirocumab, Secondary Prevention ....................... e826
inclisiran, bempedoic acid) is recommended for
11.1. DAPT Strategies in the First
patients already on maximally tolerated statin who
12 Months Postdischarge ............. e826
have a low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level
11.1.1. Antiplatelet Therapy in
of ≥70 mg/dL (1.8 mmol/L). It is reasonable in
Patients on Anticoagulation
this high-risk population to further intensify lipid-
Postdischarge ................. e829
lowering therapy if the low-density lipoprotein
11.2. Reassessment of Lipid Levels
cholesterol level is 55 to <70 mg/dL (1.4 to <1.8
Postdischarge ........................ e830
mmol/L) and patient is already on a maximally tol-
11.3. SGLT-2 Inhibitors and GLP-1
erated statin.
Receptor Agonists .................... e831
4. In patients with non–ST-segment elevation ACS
11.4. Use of Chronic Colchicine ............. e831
who are at intermediate or high risk of ischemic
11.5. Immunization ......................... e832
events, an invasive approach with the intent to pro-
12. Evidence Gaps and Future Directions ........ e832
ceed with revascularization is recommended during
References ..................................... e834
hospitalization to reduce major adverse cardiovas-
Appendix 1 ..................................... e857
cular events. In patients with non–ST-segment ele-
Author Relationships With Industry and
vation ACS who are at low risk of ischemic events,
Other Entities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . e857
a routine invasive or selective invasive approach
Appendix 2 ..................................... e862
with further risk stratification is recommended to
Reviewer Relationships With Industry and
help identify those who may require revasculariza-
Other Entities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . e862
tion and to reduce major adverse cardiovascular
events.
5. Two procedural strategies are recommended in
TOP TAKE-HOME MESSAGES
patients with ACS who are undergoing PCI: (a)
1. Dual antiplatelet therapy is recommended for radial approach is preferred over femoral approach
patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS). in patients with ACS undergoing PCI to reduce
Ticagrelor or prasugrel is recommended in prefer- bleeding, vascular complications, and death; and
ence to clopidogrel in patients with ACS who are (b) intracoronary imaging is recommended to guide
undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention PCI in patients with ACS with complex coronary
(PCI). In patients with non–ST-segment elevation lesions.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e773
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 4 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
6. A strategy of complete revascularization is rec- Intended Use
ommended in patients with ST-segment elevation
Clinical practice guidelines provide recommendations
myocardial infarction or non–ST-segment eleva-
applicable to patients with or at risk of developing
tion ACS. The choice of revascularization method
cardiovascular disease (CVD). The focus is on medi-
(ie, coronary artery bypass graft surgery versus
cal practice in the United States, but these guidelines
multivessel PCI) in non–ST-segment elevation
are relevant to patients throughout the world. Although
ACS and multivessel disease should be based on
guidelines may be used to inform regulatory or payer
the complexity of the coronary artery disease and
decisions, the intent is to improve quality of care and
comorbid conditions. PCI of significant nonculprit
align with patients’ interests. Guidelines are intended to
stenoses for patients with ST-segment eleva-
define practices meeting the needs of patients in most,
tion myocardial infarction can be performed in a
but not all, circumstances and should not replace clini-
single procedure or staged with some preference
cal judgment.
toward performing multivessel PCI in a single
procedure. In patients with ACS and cardiogenic
shock, emergency revascularization of the cul- Clinical Implementation
prit vessel is indicated; however, routine PCI of
Management, in accordance with guideline recom-
non–infarct-related arteries at the time of PCI is
mendations, is effective only when followed by both
not recommended.
practitioners and patients. Adherence to recommen-
7. Based on one trial, use of the microaxial flow
dations can be enhanced by shared decision-making
pump in selected patients with cardiogenic shock
between clinicians and patients, with patient engage-
related to acute myocardial infarction is reason-
ment in selecting interventions on the basis of indi-
able to reduce death. However, complications
vidual values, preferences, and associated conditions
such as bleeding, limb ischemia, and renal failure
and comorbidities.
are higher with the microaxial flow pump com-
pared with usual care. Therefore, careful atten-
tion to vascular access and weaning of support Methodology and Modernization
is important to appropriately balance the benefits
The ACC/AHA Joint Committee on Clinical Practice
and risks.
Guidelines (Joint Committee) continuously reviews, up-
8. Red blood cell transfusion to maintain a hemo-
dates, and modifies guideline methodology on the basis
globin of 10 g/dL may be reasonable in patients
of published standards from organizations, including the
with ACS and acute or chronic anemia who are not
National Academy of Medicine (formerly the Institute
actively bleeding.
of Medicine),1 and on the basis of internal reevaluation.
9. After discharge, focus on secondary prevention is
Similarly, presentation and delivery of guidelines are re-
fundamental. A fasting lipid panel is recommended
evaluated and modified in response to evolving technolo-
4 to 8 weeks after initiating or adjusting the dose
gies and other factors to optimally facilitate dissemina-
of lipid-lowering therapy. Referral to cardiac reha-
tion of information to health care professionals at the
bilitation is also recommended, with the option
point of care.
for home-based programs for patients unable or
Numerous modifications to the guidelines have
unwilling to attend in person.
been implemented to make them shorter and enhance
“user friendliness.” Guidelines are written and pre-
sented in a modular, “knowledge chunk” format in
PREAMBLE
which each chunk includes a table of recommenda-
Since 1980, the American College of Cardiology (ACC) tions, a brief synopsis, recommendation-specific sup-
and American Heart Association (AHA) have trans- portive text, and, when appropriate, flow diagrams or
lated scientific evidence into clinical practice guide- additional tables. Hyperlinked references are provided
lines with recommendations to improve cardiovascular for each modular knowledge chunk to facilitate quick
health. These guidelines, which are based on system- access and review.
atic methods to evaluate and classify evidence, provide In recognition of the importance of cost–value con-
a foundation for the delivery of quality cardiovascular siderations, in certain guidelines, when appropriate and
care. The ACC and AHA sponsor the development and feasible, an assessment of value for a drug, device, or
publication of clinical practice guidelines without com- intervention may be performed in accordance with the
mercial support, and members volunteer their time to ACC/AHA methodology.2
the writing and review efforts. Guidelines are official To ensure that guideline recommendations remain
policy of the ACC and AHA. For some guidelines, the current, new data will be reviewed on an ongoing basis
ACC and AHA collaborate with other organizations. by the writing committee and staff. When applicable,
e774 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 5 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
recommendations will be updated with new evidence, or review to determine which patients are most likely to
new recommendations will be created when supported benefit from a drug, device, or treatment strategy, and
by published evidence-based data. Going forward, to what degree. Criteria for commissioning an evidence
targeted sections/knowledge chunks will be revised review committee and formal systematic review include
dynamically after publication and timely peer review of absence of a current authoritative systematic review,
potentially practice-changing science. The previous des- feasibility of defining the benefit and risk in a time frame
ignations of “full revision” and “focused update” have consistent with the writing of a guideline, relevance to a
been phased out. For additional information and poli- substantial number of patients, and likelihood that the
cies on guideline development, readers may consult the findings can be translated into actionable recommenda-
ACC/AHA guideline methodology manual3 and other tions. Evidence review committee members may include
methodology articles.4–6 methodologists, epidemiologists, clinicians, and biostat-
isticians. Recommendations developed by the writing
committee on the basis of the systematic review are
Selection of Writing Committee Members
marked “SR.”
The Joint Committee strives to ensure that the guide-
line writing committee contains requisite content ex-
Guideline-Directed Medical Therapy
pertise and is representative of the broader cardio-
vascular community by selection of experts across The term guideline-directed medical therapy encom-
a spectrum of backgrounds, representing different passes clinical evaluation, diagnostic testing, and both
geographic regions, sexes, races, ethnicities, intellec- pharmacological and procedural treatments. For these
tual perspectives/biases, and clinical practice settings. and all recommended drug treatment regimens, the
Organizations and professional societies with related reader should confirm dosage with product insert mate-
interests and expertise are invited to participate as rial and evaluate for contraindications and interactions.
collaborators. Recommendations are limited to drugs, devices, and
treatments approved for clinical use in the United States.
Relationships With Industry and Other Entities
Catherine M. Otto, MD, FACC, FAHA
The ACC and AHA have rigorous policies and methods Chair, ACC/AHA Joint Committee on
to ensure that documents are developed without bias or Clinical Practice Guidelines
improper influence. The complete policy on relationships
with industry and other entities (RWI) can be found at
https://www.acc.org/guidelines/about-guidelines-and- 1. INTRODUCTION
clinical-documents/relationships-with-industry-policy.
1.1. Methodology and Evidence Review
Appendix 1 of the guideline lists writing committee mem-
bers’ comprehensive and relevant RWI; for the purposes The recommendations listed in this guideline are,
of full transparency, comprehensive and relevant disclo- whenever possible, evidence based. An initial exten-
sure information for the Joint Committee is also available sive evidence review—which included literature de-
at https://www.acc.org/guidelines/about-guidelines- rived from research involving human subjects, pub-
and-clinical-documents/guidelines-and-documents- lished in English, and indexed in MEDLINE (through
task-forces. PubMed), EMBASE, the Cochrane Library, the Agency
for Healthcare Research and Quality, and other select-
ed databases relevant to this guideline—was conduct-
Evidence Review and Evidence Review
ed from July 2023 to April 2024. Key search words
Committees
included but were not limited to the following: AHA/
In developing recommendations, the writing com- ACC Clinical Practice Guidelines; acute coronary
mittee uses evidence-based methodologies that are syndrome(s); angina, unstable; anticoagulants; aspi-
based on all available data.3,4 Literature searches fo- rin; atrial fibrillation; cardiovascular diseases; coronary
cus on randomized controlled trials (RCTs) but also artery disease (CAD); coronary syndrome; emergency
include registries, nonrandomized comparative and medical services; fibrinolytic agents; hemorrhage; ma-
descriptive studies, case series, cohort studies, sys- jor adverse cardiovascular events (MACE); morphine;
tematic reviews, and expert opinion. Only key refer- myocardial infarction; non–ST-elevation myocardial
ences are cited. infarction (NSTEMI); percutaneous coronary inter-
An independent evidence review committee is com- vention (PCI); prehospital; revascularization; risk; ST-
missioned when there are ≥1 questions deemed of elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI); time factors;
utmost clinical importance and merit formal systematic treatment outcome.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e775
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 6 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Additional relevant studies, which were published primarily focuses on the management of type 1 acute
through April 2024 during the guideline writing pro- myocardial infarction (AMI). It can be challenging to dif-
cess, were also considered by the writing committee ferentiate type 1 versus type 2 MI. In cases of uncer-
and added to the evidence tables when appropriate. tainty and depending on the benefits/risks of a specific
The final evidence tables summarize the evidence diagnostic or therapeutic intervention, it may be appro-
used by the writing committee to formulate recom- priate to err on the side of considering an event a type 1
mendations. References selected and published in acute coronary syndrome (ACS) event until established
the present document are representative and not all- to be otherwise.
inclusive. In the United States, an estimated 805 000 AMIs
occur annually of which 605 000 are first MI events and
1.2. Composition of the Writing Committee 200 000 are recurrent.6–8 Although significant morbidity
and mortality are associated with MI, 30-day and in-hos-
The writing committee consisted of general cardiologists,
pital mortality rates after ST-segment elevation myocar-
interventional cardiologists, cardiovascular surgeons,
dial infarction (STEMI) have declined in part as a result
critical care cardiologists, emergency physicians, car-
of timely reperfusion and implementation of evidence-
diac imaging experts, advanced practice nurses, clinical
based secondary prevention.9 From 2011 to 2021 in the
pharmacists, and lay/patient representatives. The writing
United States, the annual death rate attributable to coro-
committee included representatives from the AHA, ACC,
nary heart disease declined by 15.0%.6 The economic
American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP),
impact of MI is also substantial, with the total annual
National Association of EMS Physicians (NAEMSP), and
cost estimated at $84.9 billion, including direct medical
Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interven-
expenditures and indirect lost productivity and wages.10,11
tions (SCAI). Appendix 1 of the current document lists
The incidence of MI is higher among Black males com-
writing committee members’ comprehensive and rel-
pared with non-Hispanic White males for reasons that
evant RWI.
are believed to be multifactorial.12,13 Potential factors
that may contribute to this disparity include a higher
1.3. Guideline Review and Approval prevalence of risk factors for CAD, less use of guideline-
recommended medications post-MI, and socioeconomic
The Joint Committee appointed a peer review commit-
factors.14–19 In addition to racial disparities, there are
tee to review the document. The peer review committee
sex-related disparities in the prevalence, presentation,
comprised individuals nominated by the ACC, AHA, and
treatment, and outcomes of ACS even after adjusting
the collaborating organizations. Reviewers’ RWI infor-
for confounding factors such as income, geography, and
mation was distributed to the writing committee and is
education.20 Women tend to present with ACS on aver-
published in this document (Appendix 2). This document
age 10 years later than men and with a greater burden
was approved for publication by the governing bodies
of CVD risk factors. Although chest pain remains the
of the ACC and the AHA and was endorsed by ACEP,
most common symptom of AMI, women are more likely
NAEMSP, and SCAI.
than men to present with accompanying non–chest pain
symptoms.21–24 A delay in recognition of these symp-
1.4. Scope of the Guideline
toms can result in delays in presentation, diagnosis,
The scope of the “2025 ACC/AHA/ACEP/NAEMSP/ and timely treatment of women with ACS. Studies have
SCAI Guideline for the Management of Patients With also shown that women presenting with ACS are less
Acute Coronary Syndromes” (referred to hereafter as likely to be correctly diagnosed with an ACS, receive
the “2025 ACS guideline”) is to incorporate new evi- guideline-directed medical therapy,25–27 and/or undergo
dence since the publication of the “2013 ACCF/AHA coronary revascularization when indicated.28,29 Bridging
Guideline for the Management of ST-Elevation Myocar- these racial and sex gaps will require continued provider
dial Infarction,”1 the corresponding “2014 AHA/ACC education, better understanding of barriers to access-
Guideline for the Management of Patients With Non– ing quality care and guideline-directed medical therapy,
ST-Elevation Acute Coronary Syndromes,”2 and the and changes at the community and legislative level to
“2015 ACC/AHA/SCAI Focused Update on Primary address social determinants of health such as income,
Percutaneous Coronary Intervention for Patients With employment status, neighborhood safety, and access to
ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction.”3 The 2025 ACS healthy foods.
guideline and the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for In developing the 2025 ACS guideline, the writing
Coronary Artery Revascularization”4 retire and replace, committee reviewed previously published guidelines
respectively, the “2016 ACC/AHA Guideline Focused and related scientific statements. Table 1 contains a
Update on Duration of Dual Antiplatelet Therapy in Pa- list of these publications deemed pertinent to this writ-
tients With Coronary Artery Disease.”5 This guideline ing effort. It is intended for use as a resource, obviating
e776 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 7 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Table 1. Associated Publications
Publication Year
Title Organization (Reference)
Guidelines
Management of blood cholesterol AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/ 201830
AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA
Prevention, detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ 201831
ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA
Primary prevention of cardiovascular disease ACC/AHA 201932
Coronary artery revascularization ACC/AHA/SCAI 20214
Evaluation and diagnosis of chest pain AHA/ACC/ASE/CHEST/SAEM/SCCT/SCMR 202133
Prevention of stroke in patients with stroke and transient ischemic attack AHA/ASA 202134
Management of heart failure AHA/ACC/HFSA 202235
Management of patients with chronic coronary disease AHA/ACC/ACCP/ASPC/NLA/PCNA 202336
Diagnosis and management of atrial fibrillation ACC/AHA/ACCP/HRS 202337
Other Relevant Documents
Home-based cardiac rehabilitation AHA/ACC/AACVPR 201938
Classification of cardiogenic shock SCAI, endorsed by ACC/AHA/SCCM/STS 201939
Contemporary diagnosis and management of patients with myocardial infarction in the AHA 201940
absence of obstructive coronary artery disease
Invasive management of acute myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock AHA 202141
Mechanical complications of acute myocardial infarction AHA 202142
SHOCK stage classification update SCAI, endorsed by ACC/ACEP/AHA/ESC/ 202143
ACVC/ISHLT/ SCCM/STS
Management of patients at risk for and with left ventricular thrombus AHA 202244
Cardiac catheterization laboratory management of the comatose adult patient with an AHA 202445
out-of-hospital cardiac arrest
AACVPR indicates American Association of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation; AAPA, American Academy of Physician Associates (formerly Ameri-
can Academy of Physician Assistants); ABC, Association of Black Cardiologists; ACC, American College of Cardiology; ACCP, American College of Clinical
Pharmacy; ACEP, American College of Emergency Physicians; ACPM, American College of Preventive Medicine; ACVC, Association for Acute Cardiovascular
Care; ADA, American Diabetes Association; AGS, American Geriatrics Society; AHA, American Heart Association; APhA, American Pharmacists Association;
ASA, American Stroke Association; ASCVD, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease; ASE, American Society of Echocardiography; ASH, American Society of
Hypertension; ASPC, American Society for Preventive Cardiology; CHEST, American College of Chest Physicians; ESC, European Society of Cardiology; HFSA,
Heart Failure Society of America; HRS, Heart Rhythm Society; ISHLT, International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation; NLA, National Lipid Association;
NMA, National Medical Association; PCNA, Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association; SAEM, Society for Academic Emergency Medicine; SCAI, Society for
Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions; SCCM, Society of Critical Care Medicine; SCCT, Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography; SCMR, Society
for Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance; SHOCK, Should We Emergently Revascularize Occluded Coronaries for Cardiogenic Shock trial; and STS, Society of
Thoracic Surgery.
the need to repeat existing guideline recommendations. Changes are depicted in a footnote below the recom-
Some recommendations have been carried forward mendation tables.
from previously published guidelines. If unchanged,
those recommendations remain current. Any changes 1.5. Class of Recommendation and Level of
to the formatting or content of these recommendations
Evidence
are defined as:
• Modified: formatting changes (eg, minor verbiage The COR indicates the strength of recommendation, en-
modifications such as PICO[TS] structure) compassing the estimated magnitude and certainty of
• Adapted: substantive changes (eg, major adapta- benefit in proportion to risk. The LOE rates the quality
tions, such as a change in Class of Recommendation of scientific evidence supporting the intervention on the
[COR], Level of Evidence [LOE], drug, or device basis of the type, quantity, and consistency of data from
classification). clinical trials and other sources (Table 2).1
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e777
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 8 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Table 2. Applying the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Class of Recommendation and Level of
Evidence to Clinical Strategies, Interventions, Treatments, or Diagnostic Testing in Patient Care* (Updated May 2019)
1.6. Abbreviations
Abbreviation Meaning/Phrase
CDP clinical decision pathway
Abbreviation Meaning/Phrase
CICU cardiac intensive care unit
ACEi angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor
CR cardiac rehabilitation
ACS acute coronary syndromes
AF atrial fibrillation cTn cardiac troponin
AMI acute myocardial infarction CVD cardiovascular disease
ARB angiotensin receptor blocker DAPT dual antiplatelet therapy
ASCVD atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease DOAC direct oral anticoagulant
CABG coronary artery bypass grafting ECG electrocardiogram
CAD coronary artery disease FDA US Food and Drug Administration
CCD chronic coronary disease FFR fractional flow reserve
e778 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 9 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Abbreviation Meaning/Phrase
FMC first medical contact
GLP-1 glucagon-like peptide-1
HF heart failure
hs-cTn high-sensitivity cardiac troponin
IABP intra-aortic balloon pump
ICD implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
IVUS intravascular ultrasound
LDL low-density lipoprotein
Figure 1. Pathobiology of a Type 1 Myocardial Infarction Due
LDL-C low-density lipoprotein cholesterol to Atherosclerotic Plaque Disruption.
LV left ventricular Progressive lipid accumulation and inflammation within an
atherosclerotic plaque may lead to plaque instability. Rupture or
LVEF left ventricular ejection fraction
erosion of the atherosclerotic plaque and exposure of plaque
MACE major adverse cardiovascular event
contents to the circulation may then culminate in activation of the
MCS mechanical circulatory support coagulation cascade and subsequent thrombosis. When this occurs
in the epicardial vessels of the coronary circulation, the presence
MI myocardial infarction
of thrombus may compromise flow to the myocardium, leading to
MINOCA MI with nonobstructive coronary artery disease
myocardial ischemia and eventual myonecrosis. Illustration by Patrick
MVD multivessel disease Lane, ScEYEnce Studios. Copyright 2025 American College of
Cardiology Foundation, and American Heart Association, Inc. NSTE-ACS non–ST-segment elevation ACS
NSTEMI non–ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction
more prolonged or severe myocardial ischemia are diag-
OCT optical coherence tomography
nosed with MI and have elevated biomarkers of myonecro-
OR odds ratio sis. Patients with NSTEMI may have a partially occluded
PCI percutaneous coronary intervention
coronary artery leading to subendocardial ischemia, while
PCSK9 proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 those with STEMI typically have a completely occluded
PPCI primary percutaneous coronary intervention vessel leading to transmural myocardial ischemia and in-
PPI proton pump inhibitor farction (Figure 2).3,4 The pathophysiology of ACS can be
QOL quality of life dynamic and thus patients can rapidly progress from one
RCT randomized controlled trial clinical condition (eg, unstable angina, NSTEMI, STEMI) to
another during the course of their presentation and initial ROSC return of spontaneous circulation
evaluation and treatment. Other, less common causes of
SGLT-2 sodium-glucose cotransporter-2
myocardial ischemia, among others, include coronary ar-
STEMI ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction
tery spasm, embolism, and dissection.3
UFH unfractionated heparin
This guideline will focus on the acute management
VA-ECMO venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation of ACS, including unstable angina, NSTEMI, and STEMI,
which are presumed to result from atherosclerotic plaque
rupture or plaque erosion and subsequent thrombosis.4
2. OVERVIEW OF ACS Under the Universal Definition of MI, these MI events
would be classified as type 1 MI events (Table 4).4 The
2.1. Definition and Classification of ACS
diagnostic evaluation of chest pain and the management
ACS are typically caused by the disruption (rupture or ero- of type 2 MI, spontaneous coronary artery dissection, and
sion) of an unstable coronary artery atherosclerotic plaque MINOCA (MI with nonobstructive coronary artery disease)
with associated partial or complete coronary artery throm- are covered in separate documents.5–8 A detailed descrip-
bosis and/or microemboli, resulting in diminished blood tion of the approach to the evaluation of patients with
flow to the myocardium and subsequent myocardial isch- chest pain can be found in the 2021 AHA/ACC/ASE/
emia (Figure 1).1,2 ACS includes 3 related clinical condi- CHEST/SAEM/SCCT/SCMR Chest Pain Guideline.5
tions that exist along a continuum of severity: (1) unstable Progressive lipid accumulation and inflammation
angina, (2) non–ST-segment elevation myocardial infarc- within an atherosclerotic plaque may lead to plaque
tion (NSTEMI), and (3) STEMI. The initial diagnosis and instability.1 Rupture of the atherosclerotic plaque and
classification of ACS should be based on the clinical his- exposure of plaque contents to the circulation may then
tory and symptomatology, interpretation of the ECG (Table culminate in activation of the coagulation cascade and
3), and assessment of cardiac troponin (cTn). Unstable an- subsequent thrombosis. The presence of thrombus may
gina is defined by transient myocardial ischemia leading to compromise flow to the myocardium, leading to myocar-
diminished flow in the absence of significant myonecrosis dial ischemia and eventual myonecrosis. Since early ini-
detected by circulating troponin. In contrast, patients with tiation of therapy is imperative for patients with ACS, a
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e779
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 10 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Table 3. Electrocardiographic Interpretation for Patients With Suspected Acute Coronary Syndromes
NSTE-ACS STEMI
Electrocardiographic New or presumed new and usually dynamic horizontal or down- New or presumed new ST-elevation of ≥1 mm in ≥2 anatomically
evidence of ischemia sloping ST-segment depression ≥0.5 mm in ≥2 contiguous leads contiguous leads (measured at the J-point) in all leads other than
and/or T-wave inversion >1 mm in ≥2 contiguous leads with prom- V2-V3 and ≥2 mm in men ≥40 y, ≥2.5 mm in men <40 y, and
inent R wave or R/S ratio >1 or transient ST-segment elevation. ≥1.5 mm in women regardless of age in leads V2-V3.*
Other observed Many patients with NSTE-ACS have either nonspecific ST-seg- Posterior leads (V7-V9) should be obtained in patients with
electrocardiographic ment or T-wave changes or a normal ECG. The absence of elec- suspected left circumflex occlusion particularly in the setting of
changes trocardiographic evidence of ischemia does not exclude ACS. isolated ST-segment depression ≥0.5 mm in leads V1-V3.
Adapted with permission from Thygesen et al.4 Copyright 2018 The European Society of Cardiology, American College of Cardiology Foundation, American Heart
Association, Inc., and the World Heart Federation. Adapted from Kontos et al.11 Copyright 2022 American College of Cardiology Foundation.
*ST-segment changes may be observed in other conditions including acute pericarditis, left ventricular hypertrophy, LBBB, Brugada syndrome, right ventricular pacing,
Takotsubo syndrome, and early repolarization that may obscure the diagnosis of STEMI.12 New or presumably new LBBB at presentation occurs infrequently and should
not be considered diagnostic of AMI in isolation; clinical correlation is required.13 A new LBBB in an asymptomatic patient does not constitute a STEMI equivalent.11
ACS indicates acute coronary syndromes; AMI, acute myocardial infarction, LBBB, left bundle branch block; NSTE-ACS, non–ST-segment elevation ACS; and STEMI,
ST-segment elevation MI.
high index of suspicion is warranted for those who pres- Recommendations for Prehospital Assessment and Management
ent with signs and symptoms that could be consistent Considerations for Suspected ACS (Continued)
with myocardial ischemia. COR LOE Recommendations
Patients with ACS are at the highest risk for cardio-
2. In patients with suspected ACS in which the initial
vascular complications acutely, including prior to hospital ECG is nondiagnostic of STEMI, serial ECGs to
presentation and during the early hospital phase. With 1 C-LD detect potential ischemic changes should be
performed, especially when clinical suspicion of
appropriate management, this risk begins to attenuate;
ACS is high, symptoms are persistent, or the
however, patients remain at increased risk of recurrent clinical condition deteriorates.†3,4
cardiovascular events for several months to years after STEMI
an ACS.9 This may in part be related to the acute inflam-
3. In patients with suspected STEMI, immediate
matory milieu that exists after ACS that may contribute to emergency medical services (EMS) transport to
a heightened risk of recurrent events. Although the point 1 B-NR a PCI-capable hospital for primary PCI (PPCI‡)
is the recommended triage strategy, with an
at which a patient transitions from being a patient with an
FMC–to-first-device time system goal of ≤90
acute ACS to one with more stable or chronic coronary minutes.5–7
disease (CCD) is incompletely defined, many of the med- 4. In patients with suspected STEMI, early advance
ications indicated at discharge in patients with an ACS notification of the receiving PCI-capable hospital
1 B-NR by EMS personnel and activation of the cardiac
are similar to those for the management of a patient with
catheterization team is recommended to reduce
CCD and should be extended more than a year beyond time to reperfusion.1,8,9
ACS. The long-term management of patients with ACS
*FMC indicates the time point when the patient is initially assessed by a health
who are presumed to now have more stable coronary
care professional who can obtain and interpret the ECG and deliver initial inter-
disease has been described in the 2023 AHA/ACC/ ventions (eg, defibrillation).
ACCP/ASPC/NLA/PCNA Chronic Coronary Disease †Modified from the “2021 AHA/ACC/ASE/CHEST/SAEM/SCCT/SCMR
Guideline for the Evaluation and Diagnosis of Chest Pain.”10
Guideline.10
‡PPCI refers to emergency PCI in the setting of STEMI to achieve reperfusion
in patients without previous fibrinolytic treatment.
3. INITIAL EVALUATION AND
Synopsis
MANAGEMENT OF SUSPECTED ACS
Rapid and coordinated prehospital care plays a criti-
3.1. Initial Assessment of Suspected ACS cal role in the optimal management of patients with
suspected ACS.11 Patients with suspected ACS should
3.1.1. Prehospital Assessment and Management
be transported to the emergency department (ED)
Considerations for Suspected ACS
by emergency medical services (EMS).12 In contrast
Recommendations for Prehospital Assessment and Management to transport by private vehicle, EMS transport allows
Considerations for Suspected ACS
for assessment, monitoring, and treatment of poten-
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized
in the Evidence Table. tially life-threatening conditions such as arrhythmias
or cardiac arrest during transport to the ED.13 In pa-
COR LOE Recommendations
tients with suspected ACS, trained prehospital per-
Suspected ACS
sonnel should obtain a focused history and physical
1. In patients with suspected ACS, a 12-lead ECG
examination (including assessment of vital signs) and
should be acquired and interpreted within 10
1 B-NR
minutes of first medical contact (FMC)* to identify obtain at least one 12-lead ECG so that the elec-
patients with STEMI.1,2 trocardiographic findings can facilitate next steps in
e780 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 11 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Figure 2. Types and Classification of Acute Coronary Syndromes.
NSTEMI indicates non–ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction; and STEMI, ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
Illustration by Patrick Lane, ScEYEnce Studios. Copyright 2025 American College of Cardiology Foundation, and the American Heart
Association, Inc.
patient triage. Specifically, patients should be man- facility when possible (Section 8, “Cardiogenic Shock
aged based on the presence or absence of ST-seg- Management”).14,15
ment elevation (or suspected equivalent) on the 12-
lead ECG (Table 3 for STEMI electrocardiographic
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
criteria). When possible, electrocardiographic tracings
can be transmitted to the PPCI center while en route 1. The early acquisition and recording of prehospital
to help expedite coronary reperfusion upon arrival. Be- 12-lead ECGs by trained personnel is associated
cause patients with ACS and evidence of heart failure with shorter reperfusion times and lower mortal-
(HF), ventricular arrhythmias, or cardiogenic shock in ity rates from STEMI if this diagnostic information
the prehospital setting are at highest risk for death, is integrated in patients’ care.1,2,16 Appropriately
identification of these complications is important with trained EMS personnel (ie, paramedics) can inter-
subsequent triage of these patients to a PCI-capable pret 12-lead ECGs for the identification of STEMI
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e781
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 12 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Table 4. Types of Acute Myocardial Infarction According to the Universal Definition of Myocardial Infarction
Type 1* Caused by acute coronary atherothrombosis, usually precipitated by atherosclerotic plaque disruption (rupture or erosion) and
often associated with partial or complete vessel thrombosis.
Type 2 Caused by an imbalance between myocardial oxygen supply and demand unrelated to acute coronary atherothrombosis.
Type 3 Cardiac death, with symptoms of myocardial ischemia and presumed ischemic electrocardiographic changes or ventricular arrythmia, before blood
samples for cardiac biomarkers can be obtained or increases in cardiac biomarkers can be identified and/or in whom MI is identified by autopsy.
Type 4 4a: Peri-PCI MI caused by a procedural complication and detected ≤48 h after PCI.
4b: Post-PCI MI caused by coronary stent or stent scaffold thrombosis.
4c: Post-PCI MI caused by coronary stent restenosis.
Type 5 Peri-CABG MI caused by a procedural complication detected ≤48 h after CABG surgery.
Adapted with permission from Thygesen et al.4 Copyright 2018 The European Society of Cardiology, American College of Cardiology Foundation, American Heart
Association, Inc., and the World Heart Federation.
*This guideline focuses on the management of type 1 AMI. The diagnostic evaluation of chest pain and the management of type 2 MI, SCAD, and MINOCA are covered
in separate documents.5–8
AMI indicates acute myocardial infarction; CABG, coronary artery bypass grafting; MI, myocardial infarction; MINOCA, MI with nonobstructive coronary artery disease;
PCI, percutaneous coronary intervention; and SCAD, spontaneous coronary artery dissection.
with high accuracy.17 When ST-segment elevation the hospital by EMS, the time to treatment goal is
or an equivalent finding is present on the initial ECG defined as the FMC by EMS until coronary reper-
(Table 3), initial management and triage should fol- fusion. Direct transfer to a PCI-capable facility has
low the prescribed STEMI treatment algorithm. been associated with shorter reperfusion times
Electrocardiographic changes are not required to and lower mortality compared with transport to the
confirm a diagnosis of non–ST-segment elevation closest non–PCI-capable hospital.21 In prehospi-
ACS (NSTE-ACS). tal settings where a FMC–to–first-device goal of
2. In patients for whom the initial ECG is nondiagnos- ≤90 minutes is not feasible in patients with STEMI,
tic, serial ECGs should be performed during trans- direct transport to a PCI-capable hospital may be
port to the hospital especially when clinical suspicion considered if the anticipated FMC-to-device time
of ACS is high, ischemic symptoms are persistent, is ≤120 minutes.22,23 See Section 5.1, “Regional
or the clinical condition deteriorates.3,4 Acquisition Systems of STEMI Care,” for further details.
of subsequent ECGs should not delay transport to 4. The implementation of several care processes has
a hospital. A second and/or third ECG during EMS demonstrated significant reductions in reperfusion
transport may identify up to 15% of additional STEMI times in patients with STEMI when implemented
cases not present on the first ECG.3 In an observa- within a regional medical system.24 These include
tional study of 728 patients with suspected ACS who (1) prehospital catheterization laboratory activation,
underwent serial prehospital ECGs, a STEMI diag- (2) single call transfer protocol for patients from
nosis was subsequently made in 8% of patients fol- a non-PCI facility, and (3) ED bypass to transport
lowing an initial nondiagnostic ECG with a median of patients directly to the catheterization laboratory
12 minutes after the first study.4 Posterior ECG leads for those presenting by EMS to a PCI-capable hos-
(V7-V9) should be applied in patients with ongoing pital, and for transfers from other facilities. In par-
symptoms and a nondiagnostic ECG and those with ticular, the prehospital activation of catheterization
ST-segment depressions in leads V1-V3 to assess laboratories has been associated with lower short-
for ST-segment elevation in the posterior leads, and long-term mortality in patients presenting with
which could indicate a posterior STEMI. STEMI.1,8,25 See Section 5.1, “Regional Systems of
3. PPCI is the preferred method of reperfusion for STEMI Care,” for further details.
patients with STEMI.18 Rapid reperfusion of the
infarct-related artery is associated with improved
3.1.2. Initial In-Hospital Assessment of Patients With
myocardial salvage and improved survival.19,20 For
Confirmed or Suspected ACS
those who are managed by PPCI, each 30 min-
utes of delay is associated with an increase in the Recommendations for Initial In-Hospital Assessment of Patients With
relative risk of 1-year mortality by 7.5%.19 As such, Confirmed or Suspected ACS
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized
evidence supports system-level interventions to
in the Evidence Table.
reduce time-to-device.11 Patients with prehospi-
COR LOE Recommendations
tal identification of STEMI should preferentially
1. In patients with suspected ACS, acquisition and
be transported to a PCI-capable hospital with a
interpretation of an ECG within 10 minutes is
1 B-NR
goal of FMC–to–first-device time of ≤90 min- recommended to help guide patient
utes.20 For patients who are directly transported to management.*1,2
e782 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 13 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Recommendation-specific Supportive Text
Recommendations for Initial In-Hospital Assessment of Patients With
Confirmed or Suspected ACS (Continued )
1. A focused history and rapid evaluation are criti-
COR LOE Recommendations cal in the assessment of a patient with suspected
2. In patients with suspected ACS in whom the ACS.13 Early recognition and initiation of therapy
initial ECG is nondiagnostic, serial 12-lead ECGs
for ACS improves outcomes.2,20 Rapid electrocar-
should be performed to detect potential ischemic
1 B-NR changes, especially when clinical suspicion of diographic acquisition and interpretation is required
ACS is high, symptoms are persistent, or clinical for identification of STEMI (Table 3). In patients with
condition deteriorates.*3
NSTE-ACS, the ECG may be normal or demonstrate
3. In patients with suspected ACS, cTn should be transient ST-segment elevation (a high-risk finding),
1 B-NR measured as soon as possible, preferably using a
ST-segment depression, T-wave inversions, or non-
high-sensitivity cTn (hs-cTn) assay.*4–7
specific changes. Of note, ST-segment depression
4. In patients with suspected ACS with an initial
in the anteroseptal leads (V1-V3) could indicate
hs-cTn or cTn that is nondiagnostic, the
recommended time intervals for repeat an evolving posterior STEMI and therefore should
1 B-NR
measurements after the initial sample collection be managed with a high index of suspicion with a
(time zero) are 1 to 2 hours for hs-cTn and 3 to 6
posterior lead ECG if warranted (Table 3).21 Overall,
hours for conventional cTn assays.*8–12
timely acquisition of an ECG is imperative in patients
*Adapted from the “2021 AHA/ACC/ASE/CHEST/SAEM/SCCT/SCMR
with a goal to obtain and interpret an ECG by a
Guideline for the Evaluation and Diagnosis of Chest Pain.”13
trained clinician within 10 minutes of presentation.1
2. An initial nondiagnostic 12-lead ECG does not “rule
Synopsis
out” or exclude ACS. Electrocardiographic abnormal-
Chest pain is the second most common presenting com- ities may be dynamic. A nondiagnostic ECG should
plaint to EDs in the United States and has a wide array be compared to prior ECGs, and a repeat ECG should
of potential causes, including ACS.14 Although most pa- be obtained during the ED course to assess for evolv-
tients with chest pain will not have an ultimate diagnosis ing changes.3 Right-sided leads should be obtained
of ACS, a missed ACS event has significant implications in patients with a concern for inferior STEMI to eval-
for the patient’s morbidity and mortality. Patients present- uate for right ventricular involvement.22 Assessment
ing with signs or symptoms of ACS should undergo a for posterior STEMI with an ECG is described in
history and physical examination, have timely electrocar- Table 3. The timing of repeat ECGs should be guided
diographic acquisition and interpretation (Table 3), and by the patient’s symptoms, especially recurrent chest
assessment of cardiac troponin, because these tests are pain, and any change in clinical condition.15 In NCDR
central to the diagnosis of MI15 and will guide patient ACTION (National Cardiovascular Data Registry
management (Figure 3). A thorough description of the and Acute Coronary Treatment and Intervention
evaluation of patients with suspected ACS is provided Outcomes Network), 11% of patients ultimately
in the “2021 AHA/ACC/ASE/CHEST/SAEM/SCCT/ diagnosed with STEMI had an initial ECG that was
SCMR Guideline for the Evaluation and Diagnosis of nondiagnostic, and 72.4% of those patients had a
Chest Pain.”13 Initial medical treatment should begin im- follow-up ECG diagnostic of STEMI within 90 min-
mediately for patients with presumed ACS. Urgent echo- utes of their initial ECG.3
cardiography, which may include an initial point-of-care 3. cTn is the biomarker of choice for assessing patients
ultrasound by trained clinicians, is indicated for patients for possible cardiac injury, with hs-cTn assays being
with cardiogenic shock, hemodynamic instability, or for preferred. cTn is central to the diagnosis of AMI.15
suspected mechanical complications. For patients with Given its high sensitivity and specificity for myocar-
suspected STEMI, rapid reperfusion is critical after di- dial injury, cTn (I or T) should be utilized to detect
agnosis, and further diagnostic testing should not de- or exclude myocardial injury.7 In the setting of elec-
lay cardiac catheterization or fibrinolytic therapy unless trocardiographic evidence of STEMI, reperfusion
it would immediately change patient management. For therapy should not be delayed pending biomarker
patients who warrant additional testing to confirm a di- results. A cTn concentration >99th percentile upper
agnosis of ACS, selection of the method of assessment reference limit (a value unique to each assay) is an
may encompass several factors, including clinical history, indicator of myocardial injury.15,23,24 hs-cTn assays are
electrocardiographic findings, cardiac biomarkers, pa- preferred over conventional cTn assays because the
tient preference, and patient exercise capacity. The use sensitivity and negative predictive values of hs-cTn
of evidence-based clinical decision pathways (CDPs) are greater.4,15 In addition, the time interval from chest
has been shown to improve outcomes and direct ap- pain onset to detection of hs-cTn is shorter with
propriate use of resources.13 CDPs reduce unnecessary hs-cTn compared with conventional cTn assays, lead-
testing in 21% to 43% of patients while maintaining a ing to more rapid “rule in” or “rule out” of ischemia.25
high negative predictive value for major adverse cardio- 4. AMI is characterized by a rising and/or falling pattern
vascular events (MACE).16–19 of cTn values with at least 1 value above the 99th
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e783
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 14 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Figure 3. Initial Assessment of Patients With Suspected ACS.
Colors correspond to Class of Recommendation in Table 2. *Examples of evidence-based CDPs and definition of low, intermediate, and high risk as
defined in the 2021 AHA/ACC/Multisociety Chest Pain Guideline. ACS indicates acute coronary syndromes; CDP, clinical decision pathway; cTn,
cardiac troponin; hs-cTn, high-sensitivity cardiac troponin; NSTEMI, non–ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction; and STEMI, ST-segment
elevation myocardial infarction. Adapted with permission from Gulati et al.13 Copyright 2021 American Heart Association, Inc., and American
College of Cardiology Foundation.
e784 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 15 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
percentile upper reference limit and believed caused assessment can inform discussions with patients and
by myocardial ischemia.21 With the development of decisions regarding therapeutic interventions. Several
hs-cTn assays enabling detection of circulating cTn risk scores have been developed and validated to help
at lower concentrations, CDPs using serial testing of assess a patient’s short- and long-term risk in estab-
hs-cTn at presentation (0 hours) and 1 to 2 hours later lished ACS using commonly available clinical and labora-
provide high negative predictive value, as well as accel- tory variables. Although several risk scores exist,1–3 the
erated recognition of myocardial injury.9,1012 Clinicians GRACE (Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events) and
should be familiar with both the evidence-based CDPs TIMI (Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction) Risk Scores
and the analytical characteristics of the cTn assay (ie, for NSTE-ACS and STEMI (Table 5) are well validated
limit of quantification, 99th percentile upper refer- and may be useful for helping to guide some therapeutic
ence limit, and criteria for significant change) used in decisions (Section 6.1., “Rationale and Timing for a Rou-
their practice.24,26 Men and women may have different tine Invasive or Selective Invasive Approach”).4–7 These
cutoff values with hs-cTn assays. With hs-cTn assays, scores are not to be used as diagnostic tools, because
changes in hs-cTn concentration within the normal they stratify patient risk in the setting of suspected or
reference range but below the 99th percentile upper confirmed ACS. Risk assessment using the GRACE Risk
reference limit can signal cardiac ischemia and may Score has been found to be superior to subjective phy-
warrant further evaluation. CDPs incorporating hs- sician assessment for the prediction of death or MI in
cTn assays with repeat sampling at 1 or 2 hours from patients with STEMI or intermediate-risk NSTE-ACS.8
ED arrival with calculation of the change or “delta” However, there is insufficient evidence that routine
hs-cTn can identify patients at very low risk (eg, nega- use of risk scores in patients hospitalized for STEMI/
tive predictive value >99.5%) based on assay-specific NSTE-ACS translates into reduced risk of cardiovascular
diagnostic thresholds.8,11,27–30 However, when using events.9,10
conventional cTn assays, the sampling timeframe is Evidence of HF, such as pulmonary congestion
extended to 3 to 6 hours from ED arrival.31 cTn may be detected by physical examination, chest x-ray, or lung
within normal range early after symptom onset espe- ultrasound, is an important risk marker and integral part
cially when a high-sensitivity assay is not used. When of the Killip classification (and thereby the GRACE Risk
using a CDP that incorporates a single hs-cTn value, Score and TIMI Risk Score for STEMI) in patients with
the troponin should be obtained at least 3 hours after ACS.11–15 Similarly, elevated cardiac biomarkers provide
the onset of symptoms.32 prognostic information and also are key elements of
the GRACE and TIMI Risk Scores. Higher cTn levels in
3.1.3. Risk Stratification Tools for Patients With patients with ACS are associated with an increased risk
STEMI and NSTE-ACS of death and MACE16,17 and similarly may be useful for
helping to guide some treatment decisions.4,18 Several
Synopsis
other serum or plasma biomarkers may provide additional
Substantial variability in short-term mortality and MACE prognostic information. In particular, natriuretic peptides
risk exists among patients with ACS. Individual risk (including B-type natriuretic peptide and N-terminal pro-
Table 5. Selected Risk Stratification Tools for Patients With ACS
TIMI Risk Score for Unstable
GRACE Risk Score (2.0)6,7 Angina/NSTEMI*4 TIMI Risk Score for STEMI5
Target population ACS Unstable angina or NSTEMI STEMI
Target outcome(s) In-hospital, 6-mo, 1-y, 3-y, death or 14-d all-cause death, MI, or urgent 30-d all-cause death
death/MI revascularization
Variables used In-hospital risk score Age ≥65 y Age (65-74 y/≥75 y) (2-3 points)
Age ≥3 risk factors for CAD Killip class II-IV (2 points)*
Killip class Known coronary stenosis (≥50%) Systolic blood pressure (<100 mm Hg, 3 points)
Systolic blood pressure ST-segment deviation ≥0.5 mm Heart rate >100 bpm (2 points)
Heart rate ≥2 anginal events in prior 24 h Anterior ST-segment elevation or LBBB (1 point)
ST-segment deviation Aspirin use in prior 7 d Diabetes/hypertension/angina (1 point)
Cardiac arrest on admission Elevated cardiac biomarkers (CK-MB or Weight (<67 kg, 1 point)
troponin)
Serum creatinine Time to treatment >4 h (1 point)
Elevated cardiac biomarkers
*Score 1 point for each characteristic that is present.
ACS indicates acute coronary syndromes; bpm, beats per minute; CAD, coronary artery disease; CK-MB, creatine kinase-myocardial band; GRACE, Global Registry
of Acute Coronary Events; LBBB, left bundle branch block; MI, myocardial infarction; NSTEMI, non–ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction; STEMI, ST-segment
elevation myocardial infarction; and TIMI, Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e785
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 16 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
B-type natriuretic peptide) may identify those patients who were not in cardiac arrest.3 For this reason, patients
with ACS at increased risk of death, HF, and recurrent with cardiac arrest who have achieved return of sponta-
MACE.19,20 neous circulation (ROSC) and are awake with STEMI on
Early recognition of cardiogenic shock in patients ECG are candidates for PPCI. However, care should be
presenting with ACS on FMC by EMS or ED providers individualized in the comatose patient with rapid assess-
is the key to initial triage and risk stratification.21 Cardio- ment of the patient’s clinical features and cardiac arrest
genic shock related to AMI is present in 7% to 10% of characteristics before proceeding with invasive angiog-
the ACS population and carries a high mortality rate.22 raphy.17–19 In contrast, patients who are stable without
Early and rapid revascularization for cardiogenic shock ST-segment elevation after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest
related to AMI is associated with increased survival, and do not require immediate coronary angiography. Coro-
triage to a PCI-capable hospital and ideally to hospitals nary angiography can be deferred pending further risk
providing advanced therapies (eg, mechanical circulatory stratification.8–13
support [MCS]) is preferred (Section 8.1, “Revascular-
ization in ACS With Cardiogenic Shock” and Section 8.2,
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
“MCS in Patients With ACS and Cardiogenic Shock”).
Several scales are available to determine the severity 1. Observational studies have shown an association
of shock, and observational data have shown associa- between triage of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest
tions between severity as assessed by these scales and patients to a PCI-capable facility with improved
outcomes.23 outcomes.1,2,15 Data from the CARES (Cardiac
Arrest Registry to Enhance Survival) registry
showed that transfer to a PCI-capable center was
3.2. Management of Patients Presenting With
associated with improved survival in patients with
Cardiac Arrest
cardiac arrest and STEMI on ECG. EMS should
preferentially transfer patients who are comatose
Recommendations for Management of Patients Presenting With
Cardiac Arrest after cardiac arrest, have achieved ROSC, and have
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized STEMI on the ECG to a PPCI center.2 Although
in the Evidence Table.
the ARREST (Advanced Reperfusion Strategies
COR LOE Recommendations
for Patients With Out of Hospital Cardiac Arrest
1. Patients with cardiac arrest and STEMI who have and Refractory Ventricular Fibrillation) trial did not
1 C-LD been resuscitated should preferentially be
show a benefit in triaging patients to primary car-
transferred by EMS to a PPCI-capable center.1,2
diac arrest centers, this study evaluated patients
2. Patients who have been resuscitated after cardiac
arrest and are noncomatose or who are comatose without STEMI on the ECG.20
1 B-NR with favorable prognostic features and with 2. Nearly one-third of patients with cardiac arrest and
evidence of STEMI, should undergo PPCI to
STEMI on ECG have normal neurologic status on
improve survival.3–7
presentation to the ED.3 Being alert or with partial/
3. In patients with cardiac arrest who are comatose,
minimal neurologic response on presentation with
have unfavorable prognostic features, and evi-
2b C-LD dence of STEMI, PPCI may be reasonable after STEMI after cardiac arrest is an independent pre-
individualized assessment.4,7 dictor of survival. Observational studies have dem-
4. In resuscitated patients who are comatose after onstrated comparable survival of the awake patient
3: No cardiac arrest, electrically and hemodynamically with STEMI with cardiac arrest to those patients
A stable, and without evidence of STEMI, immediate
Benefit with STEMI without cardiac arrest.3 For this reason,
angiography is not recommended due to lack of
benefit.8–14 patients with STEMI who have achieved ROSC and
are awake should undergo PPCI (Section 5.2.1,
“PPCI in STEMI”).
Synopsis
3. In patients who are comatose after cardiac arrest
Approximately 10% of patients with STEMI transferred and have achieved ROSC, but have STEMI on the
by EMS to the hospital are estimated to have an out- ECG, an individualized patient assessment for sur-
of-hospital cardiac arrest.15 Early recognition of STEMI vival and futility is essential before proceeding with
in resuscitated patients and direct transfer to a PCI- PCI. Observational data have identified poor prog-
capable center is associated with improved survival.1,2 nostic features that have been validated and incor-
Survival-to-hospital discharge in the patient who is co- porated into risk scores for this population. These
matose with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest is <10% re- include unwitnessed arrest, no bystander cardio-
gardless of etiology.16 Those with a witnessed arrest and pulmonary resuscitation, nonshockable rhythm,
a shockable rhythm have improved survival. Outcomes cardiopulmonary resuscitation >30 minutes, time
for patients with STEMI who are awake after resuscitat- to ROSC >30 minutes, arterial pH <7.2, lactate
ed cardiac arrest are comparable to patients with STEMI >7 mmol/L, age >85 years, and end-stage renal
e786 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 17 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
disease on dialysis.4,21–30 Although these data sug- who present with acute or chronic conditions that
gest a lack of clear benefit for invasive therapies require the need for supplemental oxygen to achieve
for patients with STEMI and cardiac arrest who an oxygen saturation ≥90%. A systematic review
have features indicating an unfavorable neurologic and meta-analysis of RCTs in acutely ill adults from
prognosis,4,7 this has not been validated in prospec- various causes without hypoxia suggested worse
tive trials. However, for those patients with favor- short- and long-term mortality with liberal compared
able prognostic features, PPCI is associated with with conservative administration of supplemental
greater survival.4,7,27 oxygen.7 These studies were unable to define the
4. Six contemporary trials9–14 have evaluated the optimal oxygen saturation target range to minimize
role of emergency angiography in patients who potential harm and maximize clinical benefit. The
remain comatose after cardiac arrest, do not have observed relationship between oxygenation and
ST-segment elevation on a 12-lead ECG, and are outcomes appears to be U-shaped with the lowest
electrically and hemodynamically stable. These mortality rate described for those patients with an
studies consistently demonstrated a lack of benefit Spo of 94% to 96% at presentation.8
2
to early angiography when compared with delayed 2. Several randomized trials have now demonstrated
or no angiography in the study population with com- a lack of cardiovascular benefit with routine use of
parable in-hospital and 6-month survival, as well as supplemental oxygen in patients presenting with
neurologic recovery.31 The relative utility of delayed known or suspected AMI and oxygen saturations
coronary angiography in this population is uncertain. ≥90%. Although exclusion criteria varied among
studies, patients with a home oxygen requirement,
active bronchospasm requiring supplemental oxy-
4. STANDARD MEDICAL THERAPIES FOR
gen, or with cardiac arrest at presentation were
STEMI AND NSTE-ACS excluded.2–4,6 The AVOID (Air Versus Oxygen in
ST-Segment-Elevation Myocardial Infarction) trial
4.1. Oxygen Therapy
investigated the effects of supplemental oxygen
(8 L/min) in patients with STEMI and oxygen satu-
Recommendations for Oxygen Therapy
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized rations ≥94% and demonstrated a lack of benefit
in the Evidence Table. with routine supplemental oxygen, including a pos-
COR LOE Recommendations sible increase in myocardial injury and infarct size.3
1. In patients with ACS and confirmed hypoxia DETO2X-AMI (Efficacy and Outcome Study of
(oxygen saturation <90%), supplemental Supplemental Oxygen Treatment in Patients With
oxygen to increase oxygen saturations to
1 C-LD Suspected Myocardial Infarction) evaluated the use
≥90% is recommended to improve myocardial
oxygen supply and decrease anginal of routine supplemental oxygen (6 L/min) in 6629
symptoms.1 patients with suspected MI and an oxygen satura-
2. In patients with ACS and oxygen saturations tion ≥90%.2 The use of supplemental oxygen did
3: No ≥90%, routine administration of supplemental A not reduce all-cause mortality at 1 year and did not
Benefit oxygen is not recommended because it does
not improve cardiovascular outcomes.2–4 reduce rehospitalization with MI.2,9 A consistent lack
of clinical benefit was seen in the study for those with
lower baseline oxygen saturations (90%-94%).10
Synopsis
Supplemental oxygen has historically been administered 4.2. Analgesics
as part of routine care in the management of patients
Synopsis
with suspected ACS, although evidence to suggest clini-
cal benefit in the absence of hypoxia has been lacking.5 Patients presenting with known or suspected ACS often
Randomized trials that have enrolled patients with MI experience chest pain or other uncomfortable symptoms.
and without hypoxia have not demonstrated any clini- Rapid and effective pain relief remains an important treat-
cal benefit from routine use of supplemental oxygen ment goal to prevent sympathetic activation and adverse
(≥6 L/min)2–4,6 and have raised some concerns that it clinical sequelae (Table 6). Analgesic therapies may pro-
may increase myocardial injury by increasing vasocon- vide symptomatic relief, but they have not been shown
striction and increasing oxidative stress.3 to improve clinical outcomes in patients with ACS.1,2 Ni-
trates and opiate medications remain effective treatment
options for management of pain in ACS but should be
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
thoughtfully utilized to prevent potential harm.3–6 In par-
1. Use of supplemental oxygen may provide benefit to ticular, rapid coronary revascularization should be pur-
patients who present with hypoxia (peripheral cap- sued for patients with ongoing ischemic symptoms that
illary oxygen saturations <90%), including those are not relieved with nitrates, and opiates should not be
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e787
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 18 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Table 6. Analgesic Treatment Options for Cardiac Chest Pain
Medication Route Suggested Dosing Considerations
Nitroglycerin* SL (tablets, spray) 0.3 or 0.4 mg every 5 min as needed Use in hemodynamically stable patients with SBP ≥90 mm Hg.
up to a total of 3 doses
Nitroglycerin* IV Start at 10 μg/min and titrate to pain Consider for persistent anginal pain after oral nitrate therapy, or if ACS is
relief and hemodynamic tolerability. accompanied by hypertension or pulmonary edema.20–22 Avoid use in suspected
RV infarction, SBP <90 mm Hg or a change in SBP >30 mm Hg below baseline.
Tachyphylaxis may occur after approximately 24 h.
Morphine IV 2-4 mg; may repeat if needed every Use for relief of pain that is resistant to other maximally tolerated anti-ischemic
5-15 min. Doses up to 10 mg may be medications. May delay the effects of oral P2Y12 therapy.7,9–12 Monitor closely for
considered. adverse effects.
Fentanyl IV 25-50 μg; may repeat if needed. Use for relief of pain that is resistant to other maximally tolerated anti-ischemic
Doses up to 100 μg may be con- medications. May delay the effects of oral P2Y12 therapy.8 Monitor closely for
sidered. adverse effects.
*Nitrates should not be administered after recent PDE5 inhibitor use. Avoid use of nitrates/nitroglycerin within 12 h of avanafil, 24 h of sildenafil/vardenafil, or 48 h
of tadalafil.23–25
ACS indicates acute coronary syndromes; PDE5, phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor; RV, right ventricular; SBP, systolic blood pressure; and SL, sublingual.
used solely to mask these symptoms. Concerns have also bleeding (Section 11.1, “DAPT Strategies in the First 12
been raised that the use of opiates may delay gastric Months Postdischarge”). Aspirin discontinuation after 1
and intestinal absorption of orally administered P2Y12 to 4 weeks after PCI is also appropriate for patients on
inhibitors, thereby delaying their pharmacodynamic ef- a full-dose anticoagulant in combination with continued
fects in patients undergoing PCI.7–10 However, the clinical use of a P2Y12 inhibitor (Section 11.1.1, “Antiplatelet
relevance of these pharmacodynamic findings remains Therapy in Patients on Anticoagulation Postdischarge”).
disputed.11–14 Use of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflam- For patients in whom a history of aspirin hypersensitivity
matory drugs should be avoided for management of sus- is reported, aspirin desensitization is preferred whenever
pected or known ischemia pain whenever possible.15–17 possible to allow for initial use of dual antiplatelet ther-
Use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs is associated apy.7–9 The use of a P2Y12 inhibitor is recommended in
with increased risk of MACE in patients with and without all patients with ACS regardless of whether they have a
prior cardiac disease, with no documented benefit to sup- history of aspirin hypersensitivity, but should be adminis-
port routine use in patients with ACS.15–19 tered with a loading dose as early as possible for those
patients unable to take aspirin at presentation.
4.3. Antiplatelet Therapy
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
4.3.1. Aspirin
1. Aspirin should be initiated with a loading dose
Recommendation for Aspirin
(162-325 mg) in patients with ACS without an
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized
in the Evidence Table. absolute contraindication as soon as possible on
COR LOE Recommendation presentation irrespective of final management
strategy (invasive or noninvasive), followed by a
1. In patients with ACS, an initial oral loading
dose of aspirin, followed by daily low-dose daily maintenance dose (Table 7 in Section 4.3.2,
1 A
aspirin, is recommended to reduce death “Oral P2Y12 Inhibitors During Hospitalization”). In
and MACE.1–5
patients who cannot take oral medication, rectal or
intravenous (where available) administration are
options for administration. Current evidence sup-
Synopsis
ports the use of uncoated low-dose aspirin (75-
Aspirin has long been considered an integral part of an- 100 mg) for daily maintenance therapy. The 75 to
tiplatelet therapy to prevent recurrent atherothrombotic 100 mg daily dose of aspirin exceeds the minimal
events among patients with ACS.1–3,6 Aspirin reduces the effective dose required for platelet thromboxane A
2
incidence of vascular death after AMI,3 and in second- suppression, allowing for some interindividual vari-
ary prevention trials (that include patients after MI), it re- ability in drug response.10 Among patients with ACS
duces the occurrence of vascular and coronary events, referred for an invasive strategy, continued use of
including MI and stroke.2 Although aspirin use after ACS full-dose aspirin (300-325 mg daily) for 30 days
was traditionally considered lifelong, a strategy of aspirin (following an initial loading dose) was not superior
discontinuation, rather than P2Y12 inhibitor discontinu- to low-dose aspirin (75-100 mg daily) for reduction
ation, may now be considered in the maintenance phase of MACE but was associated with increased minor
after 1 to 3 months in selected patients to reduce risk of and gastrointestinal bleeding.4 In an open-label
e788 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 19 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Table 7. Dosing Considerations for Oral Antiplatelet Therapy in Patients With ACS
Agent Setting Dosing Considerations
Aspirin NSTE-ACS or STEMI Loading dose 162-325 mg orally. Aspirin (nonenteric coated) should be chewed, when
possible, to achieve faster onset of antiplatelet action. Loading dose should be
administered for patients already on aspirin therapy.
Maintenance dose 75-100 mg orally daily (nonenteric coated)
Clopidogrel NSTE-ACS or STEMI without fibrinolytic Loading dose 300 or 600 mg orally
Maintenance 75 mg orally daily
STEMI with fibrinolytic Loading dose 300 mg orally if age ≤75 y; Initial dose 75 mg orally if age >75 y
Maintenance 75 mg orally daily
Prasugrel NSTE-ACS or STEMI without fibrinolytic, and Loading dose 60 mg orally
undergoing PCI
Maintenance dose 10 mg orally daily if body weight ≥60 kg and age <75 y
Maintenance dose 5 mg orally daily if body weight <60 kg or age ≥75 y (use caution)
Ticagrelor NSTE-ACS or STEMI without fibrinolytic Loading dose 180 mg orally
Maintenance dose 90 mg orally twice daily
NSTE-ACS indicates non–ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes; PCI, percutaneous coronary intervention; and STEMI, ST-segment elevation myocardial
infarction.
RCT of patients with established atherosclerotic
Recommendations for Oral P2Y12 Inhibitors During Hospitalization
cardiovascular disease (ASCVD), 35% of whom (Continued )
had a previous MI, no significant differences were
COR LOE Recommendations
observed in MACE or major bleeding for patients
6. In patients with NSTE-ACS planned for an inva-
treated with 81 mg of aspirin daily and those sive strategy with timing of angiography antici-
treated with 325 mg daily, although a high degree 2b B-NR pated to be >24 hours, upstream treatment with
clopidogrel or ticagrelor may be considered to
of crossover between study arms was observed.5
reduce MACE.1,5,8
Together, these data support the use of low-dose
In-Hospital Management in Patients With STEMI
aspirin (75-100 mg daily) for maintenance therapy.
7. In patients with STEMI managed with PPCI,
Based on an association between aspirin dosing
1 B-R prasugrel or ticagrelor should be administered to
and outcomes in a post hoc analysis of the PLATO reduce MACE and stent thrombosis.4,5,9,10
(Platelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes) trial,
8. In patients with STEMI managed with PPCI,
aspirin doses of ≤100 mg daily should always be clopidogrel is recommended to reduce MACE and
used in patients treated with ticagrelor.11 1 C-LD stent thrombosis when prasugrel or ticagrelor
are unavailable, cannot be tolerated, or are
4.3.2. Oral P2Y12 Inhibitors During Hospitalization contraindicated.11
9. In patients with STEMI managed with fibrinolytic
Recommendations for Oral P2Y12 Inhibitors During Hospitalization
1 A therapy, clopidogrel should be administered
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized in
concurrently to reduce death and MACE.2,3
the Evidence Table.
*Modified from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery Re-
COR LOE Recommendations
vascularization”12 and the
All Patients With ACS (STEMI and NSTE-ACS) †”2023 AHA/ACC/ACCP/ASPC/NLA/PCNA Guideline for the Manage-
ment of Patients With Chronic Coronary Disease.”13
1. In patients with ACS, an oral P2Y12 inhibitor
1 A should be administered in addition to aspirin to
reduce MACE.1–5 Synopsis
2. In patients with a history of stroke or transient
3: Harm B-R ischemic attack, prasugrel should not be adminis- Oral inhibitors of the platelet P2Y12 receptor antago-
tered because of worse net clinical outcomes.*†4 nize adenosine diphosphate–mediated activation of
In-Hospital Management in Patients With NSTE-ACS platelets. Across the spectrum of ACS, the addition of a
P2Y12 inhibitor to aspirin significantly reduces platelet
3. In patients with NSTE-ACS undergoing PCI,
1 B-R prasugrel or ticagrelor is recommended to reduce aggregation and has been shown to reduce the inci-
MACE and stent thrombosis.4–6 dence of recurrent MACE but with an increased risk of
4. In patients with NSTE-ACS who are managed bleeding.1–5,9,10 In addition to receiving aspirin, patients
1 B-R without planned invasive evaluation, ticagrelor is
with ACS should therefore be treated with a loading
recommended to reduce MACE.5,7
dose of an oral P2Y12 inhibitor followed by daily dos-
5. In patients with NSTE-ACS, clopidogrel is
ing (Table 7). The selection of the specific type of oral
recommended to reduce MACE when prasugrel
1 B-R
or ticagrelor are unavailable, cannot be tolerated, P2Y12 inhibitor should involve several considerations,
or are contraindicated.1 including the patient’s anticipated management strat-
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e789
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 20 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
egy and their risk of bleeding (Figure 4).1–5,9,10 Clinically recurrent MI, and improves survival.2,3 Moreover, in
available oral P2Y12 inhibitors include clopidogrel, randomized trials, the use of prasugrel and ticagre-
prasugrel, and ticagrelor. Clopidogrel is the least potent lor further reduced risk of MACE, as well as stent
oral P2Y12 inhibitor and requires more time to reach thrombosis, when compared with clopidogrel in
its maximal platelet inhibition after a loading dose, be- patients with STEMI (not receiving concurrent
cause it requires biotransformation in the liver to form fibrinolytic therapy) or NSTE-ACS.4,5 The benefits
its active metabolite. Pharmacodynamic variability in of oral P2Y12 inhibitors have also been demon-
response in clopidogrel has been well described,14,15 strated in patients after coronary artery bypass
and hyporesponders may be at increased risk of MACE graft (CABG) surgery.18–21 Guidance on dosing
and stent thrombosis when treated with clopidogrel af- interruption for patients referred for CABG is in
ter PCI.16,17 Ticagrelor and prasugrel are more potent Table 8. Duration of administration after CABG is
than clopidogrel and achieve more rapid onset of in- described in Section 11.1, “DAPT Strategies in the
hibition of platelet activation but with increased risk of First 12 Months Postdischarge.”
bleeding compared with clopidogrel. Of note, ticagrelor 2. In a secondary analysis of the randomized,
may cause subjective transient dyspnea in approxi- double-blind TRITON-TIMI 38 (Trial to Assess
mately 10% to 15% of patients after ACS.5 The topic Improvement in Therapeutic Outcomes by
of duration of dual antiplatelet therapy is addressed in Optimizing Platelet Inhibition with Prasugrel–
Section 11.1, “DAPT Strategies in the First 12 Months Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction) of prasugrel
Postdischarge.” versus clopidogrel in addition to aspirin among
patients with ACS, subgroup analyses using an
outcome of net clinical benefit (MACE events plus
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
bleeding) demonstrated net harm with prasugrel
1. Several trials have demonstrated the clinical ben- versus clopidogrel among patients with previous
efit of oral P2Y12 inhibitors in ACS for reducing transient ischemic attack or stroke.4 Dose reduc-
MACE but with increased risk of bleeding. In ran- tion of prasugrel should be considered in patients
domized placebo-controlled trials in both NSTE- ≥75 years of age and in those with a body weight
ACS and STEMI, the addition of clopidogrel to <60 kg (Table 7).
aspirin reduced risk of MACE irrespective of man- 3. The randomized, double-blind TRITON-TIMI
agement strategy.1–3 In patients with STEMI treated 38 and PLATO trials demonstrated that prasu-
with fibrinolytic therapy, the addition of clopido- grel (TRITON-TIMI 38) or ticagrelor (PLATO)
grel to aspirin reduces 30-day MACE, including reduced the rate of the composite endpoint of
Figure 4. Initial Choice of P2Y12 Inhibitor in Patients Not Requiring an Oral Anticoagulant.
Colors correspond to Class of Recommendation in Table 2.
ACS indicates acute coronary syndromes; ASA, aspirin; CABG, coronary artery bypass grafting; NSTE-ACS, non–ST-segment elevation ACS; PCI,
percutaneous coronary intervention; and STEMI, ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
e790 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 21 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Table 8. Management of Oral P2Y12 Inhibitors for Patients medically managed or underwent revasculariza-
Who Require CABG Surgery* tion, the administration of clopidogrel significantly
Clopidogrel Elective CABG: Interrupt for 5 d before surgery. reduced the composite of cardiovascular death,
MI, or stroke.1 Although prasugrel and ticagre- Urgent CABG: Interruption for at least 24 h (ideally) and
proceeding earlier than 5 d may be reasonable. lor further reduce major cardiovascular events
Prasugrel Elective CABG: Interrupt for 7 d before surgery. compared with clopidogrel in patients with ACS
undergoing PCI, these more potent agents
Urgent CABG: Interruption for at least 24 h (ideally) and
proceeding earlier than 7 d may be reasonable. also further increase the risk of bleeding.4,5
Ticagrelor Elective CABG: Interrupt for 3-5 d before surgery. Clopidogrel is an effective alternative P2Y12
inhibitor for use in patients with high bleeding
Urgent CABG: Interruption for at least 24 h (ideally) and
proceeding earlier than 5 d may be reasonable. risk or contraindications to prasugrel or ticagrelor.
In an open-label trial with a high crossover rate
*For all patients, oral P2Y12 inhibitor should be resumed after surgery when
bleeding risk not excessive (typically 24-72 hours). among older patients with ACS undergoing PCI,
CABG indicates coronary artery bypass grafting. patients treated with clopidogrel had a similar rate
of ischemic events and less bleeding compared
cardiovascular death, MI, or stroke by 16% to with ticagrelor.23 Significant interpatient variability
20% when compared with clopidogrel, as well in the pharmacodynamic response to clopidogrel
as reduced the risk of stent thrombosis.4,5 In the has been described.15
PLATO trial, a nominal reduction in all-cause 6. In a prospective substudy among the patients
death with ticagrelor compared with clopido- who underwent PCI (n=2658) in the CURE
grel was also observed.5 In TRITON-TIMI 38, the trial, those who were pretreated with clopidogrel
P2Y12 inhibitor (prasugrel or clopidogrel) was (median 6 days) prior to PCI had a significantly
only administered in patients with NSTE-ACS lower rate of MACE both before PCI and by 30
once the anatomy was deemed suitable for PCI. days.8 Clopidogrel is a prodrug that requires
In the PLATO trial, 72% were managed with a metabolism by the cytochrome P450 enzyme
planned invasive strategy and results in the inva- system to form its active metabolite and there-
sively managed population were highly consistent fore may require several hours before significant
with the overall trial for reducing MACE, as well as antiplatelet effect is observed following a load-
cardiovascular and all-cause death individually.6 ing dose. A meta-analysis of trials of clopido-
Both prasugrel and ticagrelor increase the risk of grel in patients with ACS undergoing PCI found
non-CABG major bleeding compared with clopi- that pretreatment with clopidogrel significantly
dogrel.4,5 Prasugrel has been shown to increase reduced the risk for 30-day cardiovascular death
life-threatening bleeds.4 Limited data exist to or MI.11 However, less is known regarding the
compare the efficacy and safety of prasugrel ver- need for pretreatment in the era of more potent
sus ticagrelor head-to-head. One open-label ran- P2Y12 inhibitors with more rapid onset of anti-
domized trial reported a lower rate of MACE with platelet action. In a randomized trial of prasugrel
similar bleeding with prasugrel administered at pretreatment versus administration at the time
the time of PCI compared with ticagrelor used as of PCI, pretreatment (median of only 4.4 hours)
upstream therapy in patients with ACS undergo- did not improve ischemic outcomes, but signifi-
ing invasive evaluation.22 cantly increased bleeding.24 In the PLATO trial,
4. The randomized, double-blind PLATO trial of knowledge of coronary anatomy prior to admin-
ticagrelor versus clopidogrel included patients istration of the study drug was not required;
with ACS managed with or without a planned however, upstream use of ticagrelor was not
invasive strategy. Among the 28% of patients specifically compared with a strategy of admin-
(n=5216) who were managed without a planned istration at time of PCI. Therefore, it remains
invasive strategy, a 15% reduction was observed unknown whether a benefit exists for adminis-
in the primary endpoint of vascular death, MI, tration of ticagrelor prior to PCI in patients with
or stroke with ticagrelor versus clopidogrel that NSTE-ACS. For this reason, routine pretreatment
was highly consistent with the 16% reduction in in patients undergoing an early invasive manage-
MACE in the overall trial. Similarly, the findings ment strategy (<24 hours) is not supported by
for bleeding were consistent with the overall trial clinical trial data. However, it may be reason-
result.5,7 able to consider pretreatment with clopidogrel
5. In the randomized, double-blind, placebo-con- or ticagrelor in patients undergoing an invasive
trolled CURE (Clopidogrel in Unstable Angina to management strategy with the timing of angiog-
Prevent Recurrent Events) trial, among patients raphy anticipated to be ≥24 hours from adminis-
with NSTE-ACS receiving aspirin and who were tration of the loading dose.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e791
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 22 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
7. The clinical efficacy of prasugrel and ticagrelor com- pattern in the subgroup treated with fibrinolytic.3 No
pared with clopidogrel in TRITON-TIMI 38 and the significant excess was observed in bleeding with
PLATO trial was consistent in patients undergo- clopidogrel versus placebo. Based on the design of
ing PPCI or delayed (ie, secondary) PCI after initial these 2 trials, when administered concurrently with
therapy for STEMI.4,5 In the subgroup of patients with fibrinolytic as the reperfusion strategy, clopidogrel
STEMI in TRITON-TIMI 38 (n=3534), prasugrel sig- is recommended to be administered with a loading
nificantly reduced MACE by 21% and stent throm- dose (300 mg, then 75 mg daily) for patients <75
bosis by 42% at 15 months without a clear excess years of age and starting without a loading dose (75
in bleeding.9 In the PLATO trial, compared with clopi- mg daily) for patients ≥75 years of age. In patients
dogrel, treatment of patients with STEMI undergoing treated with a fibrinolytic agent who are undergoing
PPCI (n=7544) with ticagrelor was associated with subsequent PCI, either clopidogrel or ticagrelor (age
a consistent trend toward reduction in cardiovascu- <75 years, within 24 hours after a fibrinolytic agent)
lar death, recurrent MI, or stroke, as well as a sig- or prasugrel (>24 hours after a fibrinolytic agent) are
nificant reduction in stent thrombosis and an 18% alternatives to support PCI.9–12,28 In a trial of 3799
reduction in all-cause death.10 Both TRITON-TIMI 38 patients with STEMI who were treated with a fibrino-
and the PLATO trial permitted study drug adminis- lytic agent, 89% of whom also received clopidogrel
tration prior to the initial angiogram for patients with at the time of a fibrinolytic agent, randomization to
STEMI undergoing primary PCI. In a separate ran- ticagrelor administered at a median of 11.4 hours
domized trial in PPCI for STEMI, allocation to pre- (interquartile range, 5.8-18.2 hours) after fibrinolytic
hospital ticagrelor or hospital administration did not therapy was noninferior to clopidogrel with respect
improve the primary endpoint of coronary reperfu- to major bleeding.28
sion prior to the PCI.25 However, upstream adminis-
4.3.3. Intravenous P2Y12 Inhibition
tration of ticagrelor was associated with a reduction
in stent thrombosis with similar bleeding between Recommendation for Intravenous P2Y12 Inhibition
treatment groups. Registry data have also not shown Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized in
the Evidence Table.
clear clinical benefit for preloading a P2Y12 inhibi-
tor in patients with STEMI,26 but a meta-analysis that COR LOE Recommendation
included patients with STEMI showed that clopido- 1. Among patients with ACS undergoing PCI who
have not received a P2Y12 inhibitor, intravenous
grel pretreatment was associated with a lower risk 2b B-R
cangrelor may be reasonable to reduce
for MACE without an increase in bleeding.27 periprocedural ischemic events.*1–4
8. Clopidogrel is effective for prevention of stent
*Reproduced from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery
thrombosis and early recurrent ischemic events Revascularization.”5
in patients with STEMI undergoing PCI.11 As in
patients with NSTE-ACS, in patients with STEMI
Synopsis
undergoing PPCI, prasugrel and ticagrelor reduce
the risk of recurrent MACE compared with clopi- Cangrelor is a direct-acting, intravenous antagonist of the
dogrel.9,10 Administration of clopidogrel is an alter- P2Y12 receptor characterized by rapid and potent platelet
native to prasugrel or ticagrelor in patients with inhibitory effects with restoration of platelet function occur-
STEMI who are at high bleeding risk or have other ring within 1 hour of drug discontinuation.6 These pharma-
contraindications to those agents. cological properties may be particularly beneficial in clinical
9. In the CLARITY (Clopidogrel as Adjunctive scenarios wherein absorption of orally administered P2Y12
Reperfusions Therapy)-TIMI 28 trial, addition of inhibitors is impaired or not possible, as well as in patients
clopidogrel to aspirin in patients with STEMI who requiring CABG or other surgery early after PCI when pro-
were <75 years of age and received fibrinolytic ther- longed discontinuation of a P2Y12 inhibitor may not be
apy reduced the odds of an occluded infarct-related safe.7 The safety and efficacy of cangrelor has been com-
artery at angiography, as well as the composite of pared with clopidogrel or placebo in 3 RCTs involving pa-
cardiovascular death, recurrent MI, or recurrent tients who are P2Y12 inhibitor-naïve and undergoing PCI
ischemia requiring urgent revascularization by for stable or acute indications.1–3 In a patient-level pooled
30 days.2 In the randomized, placebo-controlled analysis of these studies, cangrelor administered during PCI
COMMIT (Clopidogrel and Metoprolol in Myocardial significantly reduced periprocedural ischemic events albeit
Infarction Trial) study among patients with suspected at the expense of more frequent minor bleeding.4 The safety
MI (93% STEMI, 54% fibrinolytic-treated) receiving and efficacy of cangrelor versus ticagrelor or prasugrel with
aspirin, clopidogrel 75 mg/day (without a loading respect to ischemic events have not been established. The
dose), significantly lowered the risk of the compos- transition from intravenous to oral P2Y12 inhibition is an
ite endpoint of death, reinfarction, or stroke, as well important consideration to ensure adequate platelet inhibi-
as the endpoint of mortality alone, with a consistent tion on completion of cangrelor infusion (Table 9).8
e792 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 23 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Table 9. Transition From Intravenous Cangrelor Infusion to
Recommendations for Intravenous Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa Inhibitors
Oral P2Y12 Inhibitor
(Continued )
Timing of Loading Dose Ad- COR LOE Recommendations
Oral P2Y12 inhibitor Loading Dose ministration
2. In patients with ACS, glycoprotein IIb/IIIa
Clopidogrel 600 mg Immediately after discontinuation inhibitors should not be administered routinely
3: Harm B-R
of cangrelor due to lack of ischemic benefit and increased risk
of bleeding.3–5
Prasugrel 60 mg Immediately after discontinuation
of cangrelor *Adapted from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery
Ticagrelor 180 mg At any time during or immediately Revascularization.”6
after discontinuation of cangrelor
Recommendations in table obtained from US Food and Drug Administration Synopsis
labeling for cangrelor.8
Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor inhibitors are parenter-
ally administered drugs that block platelet aggrega-
Recommendation-Specific Supporting Text tion by preventing platelet cross-linking via fibrinogen
or von Willebrand factor binding to the glycoprotein
1. CHAMPION PHOENIX (A Clinical Trial Comparing
IIb/IIIa receptor. These agents were first evaluated be-
Cangrelor to Clopidogrel Standard Therapy in Subjects
fore contemporary antiplatelet and interventional strate-
Who Require PCI) examined the effect of cangre-
gies were introduced and in an era when the time to
lor versus clopidogrel in patients undergoing PCI for
coronary revascularization was substantially longer than
acute or stable coronary syndromes.2 Cangrelor was
today. Thus, limited data are available for glycoprotein
administered as an intravenous bolus prior to PCI fol-
IIb/IIIa receptors in patients receiving more potent
lowed by an infusion for at least 2 hours or for the
P2Y12 inhibitors and in those receiving earlier PCI with
duration of the procedure, whichever was longer. In
contemporary drug-eluting stents that have a lower risk the control arm, clopidogrel was administered as a
for stent thrombosis than prior generations of stents. In
600- or 300-mg loading dose immediately before or
current practice, the role of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa recep-
after PCI. At 48 hours, the primary endpoint of all-
tor inhibitors is largely limited to adjunctive use at the
cause death, MI, ischemia-driven revascularization,
time of PCI in patients with large thrombus burden or as
or stent thrombosis was significantly reduced with
“rescue” or “bailout” therapy in patients with PCI com-
cangrelor with similar effects observed among those
plications such as no-reflow or persistent or recurring
presenting with NSTE-ACS (n=2810) or STEMI
thrombus at the lesion.1
(n=1991). These results contrast with the earlier
neutral findings from the CHAMPION PLATFORM
(Cangrelor Versus Standard Therapy to Achieve
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
Optimal Management of Platelet Inhibition) trial and
CHAMPION PCI (A Clinical Trial to Demonstrate 1. In a study of 452 selected high-risk patients with
the Efficacy of Cangrelor), which compared can- large anterior STEMI and a large thrombus bur-
grelor with placebo and clopidogrel, respectively.1,3 den, adjunctive use of intracoronary abciximab
Differences across trials in the timing of clopidogrel reduced thrombus burden and infarct size.1 Other
administration and definitions of MI and stent throm- trials have also suggested that glycoprotein IIb/IIIa
bosis may in part account for variability in the inci- inhibitors can reduce intracoronary thrombus
dence of ischemic events and observed treatment burden in patients with STEMI and NSTE-ACS.7,8
effect. In a pooled analysis of these trials, cangrelor Thus, glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor inhibitors can
was associated with a significant reduction in peri- be considered at the time of PCI for patients with
procedural ischemic events compared with control a large coronary thrombus burden or no-reflow
with no evidence of heterogeneity across types of or slow flow that is believed to be attributable to
ACS presentations.4 distal embolization of thrombus. In clinical trials
comparing intravenous and intracoronary admin-
4.3.4. Intravenous Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa Inhibitors
istration of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, clini-
Recommendations for Intravenous Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa Inhibitors cal and bleeding outcomes, as well as thrombus
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized in resolution and infarct size, have generally been
the Evidence Table.
similar.2,9,10
COR LOE Recommendations
2. Multiple strategies have been evaluated for use of
1. In patients with ACS undergoing PCI with large glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor inhibitors in patients
thrombus burden, no-reflow, or slow flow, adjunctive
with ACS. “Upstream” administration of these
2a C-LD use of an intravenous or intracoronary glycoprotein
IIb/IIIa inhibitor is reasonable to improve procedural agents is defined as administration of small mol-
success and reduce infarct size.*,1,2 ecule agents (eptifibatide or tirofiban) early after
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e793
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 24 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
ACS diagnosis for medical stabilization prior to
Recommendations for Parenteral Anticoagulation (Continued )
planned angiography and PCI. In the EARLY-ACS
COR LOE Recommendations
(Early Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa Inhibition in Patients
STEMI: Anticoagulant Therapy Treated With Fibrinolytic Therapy
with Non–ST-segment Elevation Acute Coronary
Syndrome) trial, 9406 patients with NSTE-ACS 9. In patients with STEMI treated with fibrinolytic
therapy, parenteral anticoagulation should be were randomized to routine upstream use of eptifi-
1 A continued for the duration of the hospital stay
batide (within 8 hours after presentation to the (maximum of 8 days) or until revascularization is
hospital) versus ad hoc adjunctive use at the time performed to reduce ischemic events.9,10,27–29
of PCI among patients with NSTE-ACS.4 Ischemic 10. In patients with STEMI treated with fibrinolytic
outcomes were not improved and bleeding was 1 A therapy who are not intended to undergo an
invasive approach, enoxaparin is the recommended
increased in the routine upstream eptifibatide arm.
anticoagulant to reduce ischemic events.9,10,28,29
An alternative approach is routine adjunctive use
11. In patients with STEMI treated with fibrinolytic
of a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor at the time of PCI therapy who are not intended to undergo an inva-
1 B-R
for patients with STEMI or NSTE-ACS. Although sive approach, fondaparinux is a recommended
alternative to reduce ischemic events.27,30
early trials performed prior to use of potent P2Y12
inhibitors suggested that this approach improved *At the time of diagnosis and prior to invasive coronary angiography if planned.
†Adapted or
procedural outcomes and reduced periprocedural
‡modified from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery Re-
myocardial necrosis, studies performed among vascularization.”31
patients receiving pretreatment with clopidogrel
have not confirmed reduction of ischemic events
Synopsis
with routine adjunctive glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibi-
tion and have increased bleeding complications.5,11 Parenteral anticoagulation is recommended for all pa-
tients with ACS, irrespective of the initial treatment
4.4. Parenteral Anticoagulation strategy, to treat the underlying pathophysiologic pro-
cess (coronary atherothrombosis) and reduce the risk
Recommendations for Parenteral Anticoagulation of recurrent MACE (Table 10). Although eventual di-
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized
agnostic reclassification can occur (ie, to other non-
in the Evidence Table.
atherothrombotic ACS diagnoses such as coronary
COR LOE Recommendations
spasm or other conditions that can mimic ACS, such
NSTE-ACS: Upstream* Anticoagulant Therapy
as stress cardiomyopathy or myocarditis), initial par-
1. In patients with NSTE-ACS, intravenous enteral anticoagulation is intended to treat thrombus
1 B-R unfractionated heparin (UFH) is useful to reduce
ischemic events.†1–4 caused by atherosclerotic plaque disruption (rupture or
erosion) in patients with presumed type 1 MI.32 Anti-
2. In patients with NSTE-ACS in whom an early
invasive approach is not anticipated, either coagulation strategies are to be initiated upstream (at
1 B-R enoxaparin or fondaparinux are recommended the time of diagnosis and prior to coronary angiogra-
alternatives to UFH to reduce ischemic events.5–11
phy) and to support PCI or other reperfusion therapy.
Anticoagulant Therapy in Patients Undergoing Coronary In patients with ACS undergoing PCI, intraprocedural
Revascularization
thrombin generation and platelet aggregation may
3. In patients with ACS undergoing coronary
occur, for which reason parenteral anticoagulation is
revascularization (CABG or PCI) in the same
1 C-LD admission, parenteral anticoagulation should be recommended to reduce the risk for thrombotic com-
continued until revascularization to reduce plications.33 The choice of a parenteral anticoagulant
ischemic events.12,13
can be complex because it is influenced by various fac-
Anticoagulant Therapy to Support PCI in ACS (STEMI and tors, including vascular access site, renal function, and
NSTE-ACS)
concomitant use of other antiplatelet or anticoagulant
4. In patients with ACS undergoing PCI, intravenous
1 C-EO agents. Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia can oc-
UFH is useful to reduce ischemic events.†
cur with both UFH and low-molecular-weight heparin;
5. In patients with STEMI undergoing PCI, bivalirudin
in this context, argatroban and bivalirudin are direct
1 B-R is useful as an alternative to UFH to reduce
mortality and bleeding.†14–19 thrombin inhibitors that are acceptable alternative an-
ticoagulants for patients with known heparin-induced
6. In patients with NSTE-ACS undergoing PCI,
2b B-R bivalirudin may be reasonable as an alternative to thrombocytopenia.34,35
UFH to reduce bleeding.†16,20–23
7. In patients with ACS, intravenous enoxaparin may
2b B-R be considered as an alternative to UFH at the Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
time of PCI to reduce ischemic events.‡7,8,24–26
1. UFH has traditionally been the preferred anti-
8. In patients with ACS, fondaparinux should not be
3: Harm B-R used to support PCI because of the risk of coagulant to treat patients with NSTE-ACS.1–4
catheter thrombosis.5,27 However, limitations to its use include the lack of
e794 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 25 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Table 10. Dosing of Parenteral Anticoagulation in ACS
Drug Dosing
UFH Initial therapy: Loading dose 60 IU/kg (max 4000 IU), with initial infusion 12 IU/kg per h (max 1000 IU/h) adjusted to therapeutic aPTT
range of 60-80 s.
To support PCI: In patients who have received prior anticoagulant therapy, additional UFH as needed to achieve an ACT 250-300 s.
In patients who have not received prior anticoagulant therapy, 70-100 U/kg initial bolus to achieve target ACT of 250-300 s.
With fibrinolytic therapy: Loading dose 60 IU/kg (maximum 4000 IU) with initial infusion 12 IU/kg per h (maximum 1000 IU/h) adjusted to
therapeutic aPTT range.*
Bivalirudin To support PCI: 0.75 mg/kg bolus, 1.75 mg/kg per h IV infusion during the PCI procedure.
Post-PCI infusion for PPCI: 1.75 mg/kg per h for 2-4 h post-PCI.
In patients with CrCl <30 mL/min, reduced infusion to 1 mg/kg per h.
Enoxaparin Initial therapy: 1 mg/kg subcutaneous every 12 h. Reduce dose to 1 mg/kg per d subcutaneous if CrCl <30 mL/min.
To support PCI: For previous treatment with enoxaparin, if the last subcutaneous dose was administered 8-12 h earlier or if only 1 subcuta-
neous dose of enoxaparin has been administered, an IV dose of 0.3 mg/kg of enoxaparin should be given. If the last dose was administered
within the previous 8 h, no additional enoxaparin should be given.
For patients who have not received prior anticoagulant therapy, 0.5-0.75 mg/kg IV bolus.
With fibrinolytic therapy: If age <75 y, 30 mg IV bolus, followed in 15 min by 1 mg/kg subcutaneous every 12 h (maximum 100 mg for the
first 2 doses).
If age ≥75 y: no bolus, 0.75 mg/kg subcutaneous every 12 h (maximum 75 mg for the first 2 doses).
Regardless of age, if CrCl <30 mL/min: 1 mg/kg subcutaneous every 24 h.
Fondaparinux Initial therapy: 2.5 mg subcutaneous daily.
With fibrinolytic therapy: 2.5 mg IV, then 2.5 mg subcutaneous daily starting the following day. Contraindicated if CrCl <30 mL/min.
Fondaparinux should not be used to support PCI because of the risk of catheter thrombosis.
*Therapeutic aPTT range in setting of fibrinolytic therapy is 50-70 s.
ACS indicates acute coronary syndromes; ACT, activated clotting time; aPTT, activated partial thromboplastin time; CrCl, creatinine clearance; PCI, percutaneous
coronary intervention; PPCI, primary percutaneous coronary intervention; and UFH, unfractionated heparin.
a predictable dose response and risk of heparin- difference in death or MI (2.2% versus 2.3%) or in
induced thrombocytopenia.33 In unstable angina, the risk of major bleeding.36
a meta-analysis including 1353 patients enrolled 3. For patients with ACS undergoing coronary revas-
from 6 randomized studies showed that, in com- cularization (CABG or PCI), parenteral antico-
parison to patients treated with aspirin alone, those agulation is indicated until revascularization. The
treated with aspirin and heparin were at lower, albeit premature discontinuation of anticoagulation is
nonstatistically significant, risk for MI or death dur- associated with a transient rebound increase in
ing the randomized treatment period (relative risk, thrombin activity and activated protein C and the
0.67 [95% CI, 0.44-1.02]).3 Its efficacy compared reactivation of ischemic events,12,13 with the great-
with placebo has not been evaluated in the current est risk for reinfarction in the first 4 to 8 hours after
era of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) and early the discontinuation of anticoagulation.
revascularization.33 4. UFH has traditionally been the preferred antico-
2. Fondaparinux, a synthetic pentasaccharide that agulant to support PCI in patients with NSTE-ACS.
selectively binds antithrombin and causes rapid Activated clotting time is used to guide dosing dur-
and predictable inhibition of Factor Xa, was evalu- ing PCI.37 Although its pharmacokinetic effects are
ated in patients with high-risk NSTE-ACS in the not always predictable, its anticoagulant effect is
OASIS-5 (Fifth Organization to Assess Strategies reversible with the administration of protamine.
in Acute Ischemic Syndromes) trial.5 Fondaparinux 5. Bivalirudin is a direct thrombin inhibitor evaluated
was similar to enoxaparin in the risk for ischemic in both NSTE-ACS and STEMI that can be used
events at 9 days, but it reduced major bleeding. to support PCI. In the BRIGHT-4 (Bivalirudin with
About 40% of the patients underwent PCI, and Prolonged Full-Dose Infusion during PPCI versus
an increase was observed in the rate of guiding- Heparin) trial,15 which enrolled patients with STEMI
catheter thrombus formation with fondaparinux undergoing PPCI using radial access (93%), bivali-
(0.9% versus 0.3%) compared with enoxaparin. In rudin was compared with heparin monotherapy in
NSTE-ACS, despite some data favoring the use an open-label design. The bivalirudin regimen used
of enoxaparin over UFH,11 multiple meta-analyses included the standard bolus and dosing (0.75 mg/kg,
have not demonstrated compelling superiority in then 1.75 mg/kg per hour) plus a post-PCI infu-
efficacy over UFH.7,26,36 A meta-analysis comparing sion at the full dose (1.75 mg/kg per hour) for
low-molecular-weight heparin to UFH in 12 171 2 to 4 hours. Bivalirudin with the full dose post-
patients with ACS without ST-segment elevation PCI infusion was superior to UFH in reducing the
across 5 randomized trials showed no significant 30-day composite of all-cause death or BARC
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e795
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 26 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
(Bleeding Academic Research Consortium) types with fondaparinux compared with enoxaparin (0.9%
3-5 bleeding (4.39% versus 3.06%; P =0.007).15 versus 0.4%).5 Similar results were observed in the
All-cause death was also reduced with bivalirudin OASIS-6 (The Safety and Efficacy of Fondaparinux
(3.92% versus 2.96%; P =0.04), as well as 30-day versus Control Therapy in Patients with STEMI) trial
stent thrombosis (0.37% versus 1.1%; P =0.0015). in which a higher rate of guiding-catheter thrombosis
Based on these results, when bivalirudin is used and more coronary complications with fondaparinux
to support PPCI for STEMI, a postprocedure 2- to were observed when used during PCI.27
4-hour infusion at full dose is recommended.15,38,39 9. In patients with STEMI treated with fibrinolytic
6. Meta-analyses comparing bivalirudin versus UFH therapy, parenteral anticoagulation is recom-
with or without glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in mended before and after fibrinolytic therapy to
patients with ACS demonstrate that bivalirudin reduce ischemic events. In studies of fibrinolytic
is associated with a lower risk for major bleed- therapy such as the GUSTO (Global Utilization of
ing.16,17,40 In the context of NSTE-ACS, bivalirudin Streptokinase and Tissue Plasminogen Activator for
was evaluated in the ACUITY (A Comparison of Occluded Coronary Arteries) trial, the ASSENT-3
Angiomax Versus Heparin in Acute Coronary (Assessment of the Safety and Efficacy of a New
Syndromes) trial, where bivalirudin was nonin- Thrombolytic Regimen) trial, or the ExTRACT-TIMI
ferior to UFH plus glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor 25 (Enoxaparin and Thrombolysis Reperfusion
for the risk of MACE and superior with respect for Acute Myocardial Infarction Treatment-
to 30-day major bleeding.41 The bleeding defi- Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 25) study,
nition used in the study was specific to the intravenous heparin was administered for at least
ACUITY trial. Bivalirudin was also evaluated in 48 hours.10,29,43 In the ExTRACT-TIMI 25 study,
the MATRIX (Minimizing Adverse Hemorrhagic the UFH infusion was given for at least 48 hours
Events by Transradial Access Site and Systemic but could be continued for a longer period at the
Implementation of AngioX) trial where it was com- treating physician’s discretion, whereas the sub-
pared against UFH alone (ie, without concomitant cutaneous injections of enoxaparin were contin-
glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor).42 No significant dif- ued until hospital discharge or for a maximum of 8
ference was observed between the 2 arms with days (whichever came first).10 Patients randomized
respect to 30-day ischemic or bleeding events. to enoxaparin had a lower risk of death or nonfa-
7. Intravenous enoxaparin compared with UFH tal recurrent MI through 30 days compared with
reduces the risk for ischemic outcomes without a UFH (9.9% versus 12.0%); however, treatment
significant difference in bleeding in the setting of with enoxaparin was associated with an increase
PPCI. In the ATOLL (Acute Myocardial Infarction in major bleeding (2.1% versus 1.4%).10
Treated with Primary Angioplasty and Intravenous 10. In patients with STEMI who received fibrinolytic
Enoxaparin or Unfractionated Heparin to Lower therapy and who are not planned for an invasive
Ischemic and Bleeding Events at Short- and Long- approach, enoxaparin is the preferred anticoagu-
term Follow-up) trial,24 which enrolled patients lant over UFH.9,10,28,29,44 In the ExTRACT-TIMI 25
presenting with STEMI, the primary endpoint of study, enoxaparin until hospital discharge or for a
30-day incidence of death, complication of MI, maximum of 8 days (whichever came first) was
procedural failure, or major bleeding occurred in compared with UFH administered for at least 48
28% of patients with enoxaparin compared with hours (could be continued for a longer period at the
34% with UFH (P =0.06). Although the incidence treating physician’s discretion) in 20 506 patients
of primary endpoint was not significantly different with STEMI receiving fibrinolytic therapy.10 The pri-
between enoxaparin and UFH, the secondary end- mary endpoint of death or nonfatal recurrent MI
point of 30-day death, recurrent ACS, or urgent through 30 days occurred in 12% in the UFH group
revascularization was significantly lower in the compared with 9.9% in the enoxaparin group. In
enoxaparin group (7% versus 11%; P =0.015). In a meta-analysis of 14 randomized trials, UFH did
addition, a net clinical benefit (death, complication not reduce reinfarction or death in patients treated
of MI, or major bleeding) was observed with enoxa- with fibrinolytic therapy. In contrast, low-molecular-
parin compared with UFH (10% versus 15%; weight heparin reduced the risk of reinfarction
P =0.03). In a meta-analysis of 10 451 patients, and death compared with placebo and the risk of
intravenous enoxaparin was associated with a sig- reinfarction.45
nificant reduction in death and major bleeding.26 11. In patients with STEMI who are not likely to undergo
8. Fondaparinux should not be used as the sole antico- an invasive approach, fondaparinux is an alternate
agulant to support PCI because of the risk of catheter anticoagulant that can be used. In the OASIS-6
thrombosis.5,27,31 In the OASIS-5 trial, an increase was trial of patients with STEMI who were treated with
observed in the rate of catheter-related thrombus thrombolytic agents (predominantly streptokinase),
e796 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 27 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
fondaparinux significantly reduced the risk of the ezetimibe, monoclonal antibodies to proprotein conver-
primary endpoint of death or reinfarction at 30 tase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), and bempedoic
days, including a significant reduction in mortality, acid, can both lower LDL-C levels and improve ASCVD
reinfarction, and severe bleeding when compared outcomes across diverse populations.5–10 Inclisiran also
with placebo or UFH.27,30 lowers LDL-C levels by preventing translation of PCSK9
mRNA, but clinical outcomes studies are not yet avail-
able (Table 12). Nonetheless, the relative benefit of
4.5. Lipid Management
LDL-C–lowering therapies is expected to be proportional
Recommendations for Lipid Management to the observed reduction in LDL-C levels (Tables 11
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized and 12).5–11 A lipid profile is recommended as soon as
in the Evidence Table.
feasible after presentation with ACS (Figure 5), because
COR LOE Recommendations LDL-C levels decrease modestly beginning 24 hours
1. In patients with ACS, high-intensity statin therapy from symptom onset.18 Lipid management after hospital
1 A
is recommended to reduce the risk of MACE.*1–4
discharge is discussed in Section 11.2, “Reassessment
2. In patients with ACS who are already on of Lipid Levels Postdischarge.”
maximally tolerated statin therapy with low-
density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C)
1 A
≥70 mg/dL (≥1.8 mmol/L), adding a nonstatin
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
lipid-lowering agent is recommended to further
reduce the risk of MACE.†5–7
1. High-intensity statin regimens lower LDL-C con-
3. In patients with ACS who are statin intolerant, centration by an average of ≥50% (Table 11). The
1 B-R nonstatin lipid-lowering therapy is recommended
CTT (Cholesterol Treatment Trialists) meta-analy-
to lower LDL-C and reduce the risk of MACE.8–10
sis of 5 RCTs showed that LDL-C concentration
4. In patients with ACS who are already on
maximally tolerated statin therapy with LDL-C lowering with high-intensity statins compared with
2a B-R 55 to 69 mg/dL (≥1.4 to <1.8 mmol/L), adding moderate-intensity statins reduces major vascu-
a nonstatin lipid-lowering agent is reasonable to
lar events by approximately 15% in patients with
reduce the risk of MACE.*5–7,11–13
coronary artery disease (CAD).4 An individual par-
5. In patients with ACS, the concurrent initiation of
ticipant meta-analysis of the A to Z (Aggrastat to
ezetimibe in combination with maximally tolerated
2b B-R
statin may be considered to reduce the risk of Zocor) and PROVE IT (Pravastatin or Atorvastatin
MACE.5 Evaluation and Infection Therapy)-TIMI 22 trials,
*Modified or both of which were performed in patients stabi-
†adapted from the “2023 AHA/ACC/ACCP/ASPC/NLA/PCNA Guideline lized early after ACS, demonstrated significant
for the Management of Patients With Chronic Coronary Disease.”14 reductions in cardiovascular and all-cause death
with more intensive versus less intensive statin
Synopsis
regimens.19 The benefit of a high-intensity statin
The current recommendations focus on patients with regimen appears early after ACS and persists over
recent (ie, within 12 months) ACS. The 2023 AHA/ time.3 The benefit of high-intensity statins after
ACC/ACCP/ASPC/NLA/PCNA CCD guideline pro- ACS appears to be independent of baseline LDL-C
vides more detailed recommendations on long-term concentration. No indication was observed of any
management of lipids in patients with prior ACS.14 safety concerns from achieving very low LDL-C
ASCVD event rates are substantially higher in patients concentrations on statins or other lipid-lowering
with recent ACS than those with CCD, with 1-year therapies; therefore, high-intensity statin therapy
rates of cardiovascular death, MI, and ischemic stroke should not be de-escalated during follow-up in
estimated at 10% to 15% after an ACS hospitaliza- patients who are tolerating treatment.13
tion.15,16 Higher risk among patients with ACS supports 2. Multiple therapeutic options are now available
more aggressive LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) targets in pa- to add to maximally tolerated statin therapy to
tients with recent ACS compared with those with CCD achieve desired LDL-C goals in patients with ACS
(Figure 5).14–16 RCTs have demonstrated ASCVD event (Table 12). In IMPROVE IT (Improved Reduction
reduction with multiple different pharmacological ap- of Outcomes; Vytorin Efficacy International Trial),
proaches to LDL-C level lowering, with the magnitude addition of ezetimibe to simvastatin 40 mg daily
of benefit proportional to the degree of LDL-C level low- in patients <10 days after ACS led to a modest
ering.17 In patients with ACS, RCTs have demonstrated but significant reduction in MACE, over a median
incremental benefit with high- compared with moderate- follow-up of 6 years.5 Clinical trials of PCSK9
intensity statin therapy in regard to reduction in MACE.1–4 inhibitors have demonstrated a 15% relative risk
For patients who do not reach LDL-C treatment goals reduction in MACE over a median of 2 to 3 years
on maximally tolerated statin therapy, or who are intol- including patients >1 month after ACS.6,7,20 Greater
erant to statins, several nonstatin therapies, including absolute benefit with PCSK9 inhibitors has been
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e797
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 28 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Figure 5. Management of Lipid-Lowering Therapy for Patients With ACS.
Colors correspond to Class of Recommendation in Table 2.
*Nonstatin LDL-lowering therapy: ezetimibe, PCSK9 inhibitor (alirocumab, evolocumab and inclisiran), and/or bempedoic acid.
ACS indicates acute coronary syndromes; LDL, low-density lipoprotein; LDL-C, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol; and PCSK9, proprotein
convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9.
demonstrated in those patients enrolled closer small interfering RNA targeting synthesis of the
to their ACS event.20,21 Evolocumab effectively PCSK9 protein that is administered at 6-month
reduces LDL-C levels early after ACS and has intervals after an initial 3-month dose. Inclisiran
demonstrated favorable changes on plaque com- lowers LDL-C levels by approximately 50% and
ponents by intracoronary imaging in patients with is well tolerated,26 but clinical outcome studies are
NSTEMI.22–24 Greater plaque regression has also not yet available. Bempedoic acid works upstream
been reported by intracoronary imaging for patients from statins in the liver and leads to approximately
treated with alirocumab after AMI.25 Inclisiran is a 20% reduction in LDL-C levels. It reduces MACE
Table 11. Nonstatin Treatment Options for LDL-C Lowering in Patients With ACS Who Are Not at LDL-C Goal on Maximally Tol-
erated Statin Therapy
Outcomes Study Performed in Patients
Drug Mechanism of Action LDL-C Lowering (%) With Recent ACS? Potential Adverse Effects
Ezetimibe* Blocks NPC1L1 cholesterol absorption 15-25 Yes (<10 d post ACS) Liver function test
abnormalities
Evolocumab Monoclonal antibody to PCSK9 ∼60 Established ASCVD (>1 mo post ACS) Injection site reaction
Alirocumab Monoclonal antibody to PCSK9 ∼60 Yes (1-12 mo post ACS) Injection site reaction
Inclisiran Inhibitor of PCSK9 synthesis (small ∼50 Clinical outcomes trials in ASCVD are Injection site reaction
interfering RNA) ongoing
Bempedoic acid† ATP-citrate lyase inhibitor ∼20 With or at high risk for CVD (>90 d post Gout; gallstones; liver
ACS) function test abnormalities
All agents are approved by the FDA.
*The LDL-C lowering potency of ezetimibe is greater when used in combination with statin therapy (approximately 25% LDL-C reduction) than when used as mono-
therapy (15%-20%).
†Coadministration of bempedoic acid with simvastatin at a dose >20 mg and pravastatin at a dose >40 mg is not recommended due to the increased risk of muscle-
related adverse effects from statins.
ACS indicates acute coronary syndromes; ASCVD, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease; CVD, cardiovascular disease; FDA, US Food and Drug Administration; LDL-
C, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol; NPC1L1, Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1 protein; and PCSK9, proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9.
e798 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 29 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Table 12. Statin Classification 4. IMPROVE IT randomized patients post-ACS
with LDL-C levels of ≥50 mg/dL and ≤125 mg/
Statin Classification by Expected LDL-C Reduction
dL (≤100 mg/dL if on lipid-lowering therapy)
High-Intensity Therapy* Moderate-Intensity Low-Intensity Ther-
to the combination of simvastatin (40 mg) and Therapy† apy‡
ezetimibe (10 mg) or simvastatin (40 mg) and
Atorvastatin 40-80 mg Atorvastatin 10-20 mg Simvastatin 10 mg
placebo (simvastatin monotherapy), with median
Rosuvastatin 20-40 mg Rosuvastatin 5-10 mg Pravastatin 10-20 mg
LDL-C level at enrollment of 69.5 mg/dL. The
Simvastatin 20-40 mg Lovastatin 20 mg
addition of ezetimibe reduced the relative risk
Pravastatin 40-80 mg Fluvastatin 20-40 mg
of MACE by 6.4% compared with placebo.5
Lovastatin 40 mg Benefit was similar among patients with base-
Fluvastatin XL 80 mg line LDL-C 50 to 70 mg/dL versus ≥70 mg/dL.32
Fluvastatin 40 mg BID FOURIER (Further Cardiovascular Outcomes
Pitavastatin 1-4 mg Research With PCSK9 Inhibition in Subjects
With Elevated Risk) and ODYSSEY OUTCOMES
Modified with permission from Grundy et al.42 Copyright 2018 American Heart
Association, Inc., and American College of Cardiology Foundation. (Evaluation of Cardiovascular Outcomes After
*Expected LDL-C reduction ≥50%. an Acute Coronary Syndrome During Treatment
†Expected LDL-C reduction ≥30% to 49%.
With Alirocumab) enrolled patients with LDL-C
‡Expected LDL-C reduction <30%.
BID indicates twice daily; LDL-C, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. ≥70 mg/dL and thus did not specifically assess
outcomes associated with adding PCSK9 inhibi-
by 13% in statin-intolerant patients when started tor therapy among patients with LDL-C levels
>90 days after ACS.10 55 to 70 mg/dL.6,7 However, secondary analyses
3. Statin intolerance is frequent in clinical practice of both trials demonstrated better outcomes in
and the most commonly reported cause is statin- patients with achieved LDL-C <50 mg/dL versus
associated muscle symptoms.27 To consider a those with achieved LDL-C levels ≥50 mg/dL,
patient as having statin intolerance, a minimum of with monotonic relationships, suggesting better
2 statins should be attempted, including at least outcomes with progressively lower LDL-C even
1 at the lowest approved daily dose.28 Currently well below 50 mg/dL.11,12 Rates of neurocognitive
available options for patients with complete or and muscle events, including hemorrhagic stroke,
partial intolerance to statin therapy include ezeti- were not increased among patients who achieved
mibe, PCSK9 inhibitor monoclonal antibodies, very low LDL-C levels with PCSK9 inhibition.11,12
inclisiran, and bempedoic acid. Ezetimibe and Longer term follow-up studies support continued
PCSK9 inhibitors have been demonstrated to be benefit and safety associated with achieving and
safe and well tolerated and improve lipid param- maintaining very low LDL-C levels in secondary
eters in statin-intolerant patients.8,9 However, prevention with a PCSK9 inhibitor over several
outcomes studies using these agents as mono- years.33 The benefits of ezetimibe and PCSK9
therapy or in combination in statin-intolerant inhibitors appear to be greater among higher risk
patients are not available. Bempedoic acid is an patients with prior ACS and diabetes or more
ATP citrate lyase inhibitor that reduces LDL-C advanced coronary or polyvascular disease or
levels by 15% to 25% with low rates of muscle- elevated biomarkers.20,34–41
related adverse effects.29,30 A combination prod- 5. Ezetimibe reduces LDL-C levels by 15% to 25%
uct that combines bempedoic acid with ezetimibe by blocking its absorption from the gastrointesti-
lowered LDL-C levels by approximately 35%.31 nal tract via the Niemann-Pick C1-Like 1 protein
In the CLEAR Outcomes (Cholesterol Lowering (NPC1L1). The IMPROVE IT trial studied the com-
via Bempedoic Acid, an ACL-Inhibiting Regimen) bination of simvastatin (40 mg) and ezetimibe (10
trial, bempedoic acid was compared with placebo mg) (simvastatin-ezetimibe) to simvastatin (40
in statin-intolerant patients with or at high risk for mg) and placebo (simvastatin monotherapy) in
ASCVD. Patients with ACS within 90 days prior patients hospitalized with an ACS in the past 10
to randomization were excluded from this trial. days. The median time from ACS to randomization
Mean LDL-C level was 139 mg/dL at enrollment was 5 days, and 34% of patients were already on
and was reduced by 29 mg/dL with bempedoic a statin at the time of the ACS event. The addition
acid compared with placebo. MACE was reduced of ezetimibe reduced the relative risk of MACE by
by 13% in the bempedoic acid arm. Bempedoic 6.4% compared with placebo (hazard ratio, 0.936
acid raised uric acid levels in a small subset of [95% CI, 0.89-0.99]) over a median of 6 years’ fol-
patients, and rates of abnormal liver function low-up. Ezetimibe was well-tolerated without any
tests, gout, and gallstones were increased with clear imbalances in adverse events compared with
its use in the trial.10 placebo.5
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e799
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 30 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
4.6. Beta-Blocker Therapy but increased the risk of cardiogenic shock that
occurred mainly during the first 24 hours.1 In a
Recommendation for Beta-Blocker Therapy small open-label trial of 801 patients with STEMI
Referenced studies that support recommendation are summarized
who underwent PPCI, carvedilol did not reduce
in the Evidence Table.
MACE over 3 years, but the trial was underpow-
COR LOE Recommendation
ered to detect a difference.8 Overall, the weight
1. In patients with ACS without contraindications, early
of the evidence suggests that a low dose of oral
(<24 hours) initiation of oral beta-blocker therapy
1 A is recommended to reduce risk of reinfarction and beta blocker should be initiated in patients without
ventricular arrhythmias.1–5 contraindication early after diagnosis of ACS (<24
hours) with slow dose escalation as blood pressure
and heart rate permit. Use should be discontinued
Synopsis
in those with new or worsening HF symptoms or
Beta blockers decrease myocardial oxygen demand by signs of cardiogenic shock. In hemodynamically
reducing the heart rate, blood pressure, and myocardial stable patients with STEMI who do not have acute
contractility.1,3 The clinical benefit of beta blockers in pa- HF, intravenous beta blockers can be administered
tients with left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) <40% prior to reperfusion if there are ongoing symptoms
and stabilized HF is well established, including patients or a clinical indication for administration. The weight
post-MI.3–5 Most of the RCT data pertaining to early use of the evidence does not support the routine use of
of beta-blocker therapy in STEMI were conducted in intravenous beta blockers prior to PPCI because of
the pre-reperfusion era.3 No adequately powered RCTs inconsistent results as to whether it has any favor-
have been done that examine the clinical benefit of beta able effect on infarct size or clinical outcomes.9,10
blockers during hospitalization among patients exclu- The optimal duration of beta-blocker use remains
sively with NSTE-ACS. Although most studies were con- unclear in patients with preserved LVEF. Although
ducted in patients with STEMI, early hospital initiation of a randomized trial did not confirm long-term benefit
beta-blocker therapy (within 24 hours) is recommended from continued use of a beta blocker after hospital
among most patients with ACS and without contraindi- discharge in lower risk patients with preserved LV
cations (eg, acute HF [Killip class II-IV], evidence of low function who had undergone coronary revascular-
cardiac output state or at risk for cardiogenic shock, ization,7 additional studies are ongoing in this space.
PR interval >0.24 milliseconds, second- or third-degree
heart block without a cardiac pacemaker, severe brady-
4.7. Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System
cardia, active bronchospasm).1,2,6 Patients with an initial
Inhibitors
contraindication to beta-blocker therapy on presentation
can be reassessed after 24 hours and initiated on oral
Recommendations for Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System
beta-blocker therapy if the initial contraindication has re- Inhibitors
solved. Further study is warranted to examine the benefit Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized
in the Evidence Table.
in those patients with NSTE-ACS. Although an open-label
COR LOE Recommendations
randomized trial has raised questions about the benefit
of long-term beta-blocker therapy following hospital dis- 1. In high-risk patients with ACS (LVEF ≤40%,
hypertension, diabetes mellitus, or STEMI with
charge in patients with ACS who have undergone coro-
anterior location), an oral angiotensin-converting
1 A
nary revascularization and have preserved left ventricular enzyme inhibitor (ACEi) or an angiotensin
(LV) function,7 this area remains under study. receptor blocker (ARB) is indicated to reduce
all-cause death and MACE.1–6
2. In patients with ACS and LVEF ≤40%, and
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text with HF symptoms and/or diabetes mellitus, a
1 B-R
mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist is indicated
1. RCTs from both the pre-reperfusion era and in to reduce all-cause death and MACE.7
the early reperfusion era have shown that early 3. In patients with ACS who are not considered high
initiation of beta-blocker therapy reduces the risk 2a A risk, an oral ACEi or an ARB is reasonable to
reduce MACE.4
of reinfarction and ventricular arrhythmias among
patients with STEMI.1–3 The COMMIT (Clopidogrel
and Metoprolol in Myocardial Infarction) trial
Synopsis
included 45 852 patients (approximately 50%
received fibrinolytic therapy and 7% having NSTE- Oral ACE inhibitors reduce all-cause death and MACE in
ACS) and showed that early initiation of high doses patients with STEMI or NSTEMI, particularly when associ-
(ie, up to 15 mg intravenously then 200 mg orally ated with high-risk features (LVEF ≤40%, hypertension, di-
daily) of metoprolol reduced the risk of reinfarction abetes mellitus, or STEMI with anterior location).1–4,6 Even
and ventricular fibrillation compared with placebo in AMI without high-risk features, use of an oral ACEi
e800 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 31 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
confers a modest survival benefit.4 Compared with ACEi, or hyperkalemia (serum potassium >5.0 mmol/L)
the benefits of an ARB in patients with AMI with HF or were excluded from enrollment.7 In a trial of 1012
LV systolic dysfunction are similar.5 Thus, in the absence patients with acute STEMI and without a history of
of contraindications, either an oral ACEi or ARB should HF, the use of eplerenone reduced the primary end-
be initiated in appropriate patients with AMI.5,8 In patients point compared with placebo, but the benefit was
with AMI with LVEF ≤40%, and with HF symptoms and/ largely driven by a reduction in natriuretic peptides.11
or diabetes mellitus, the addition of a mineralocorticoid 3. The ACE Inhibitor Myocardial Infarction
receptor antagonist reduced all-cause death and MACE Collaborative Group meta-analysis of 98 496
and should be given in the absence of advanced chronic patients with AMI reported a 30-day mortality rate
kidney disease, hyperkalemia, or other contraindication. of 7.1% in AMI patients treated with an ACEi com-
In patients with symptomatic HF and reduced LVEF, pared with 7.6% receiving placebo (proportional
sacubitril-valsartan has been demonstrated to be supe- reduction, 7% [95% CI, 2-11]; P =0.004), and the
rior to an ACEi for reducing cardiovascular death or HF benefit appeared to be irrespective of baseline
hospitalization; however, the trial excluded patients within risk.4 The use of an ACEi also reduced nonfatal
3 months of ACS.9 In a trial of patients early after MI with cardiac failure compared with placebo.4
LVEF ≤40% and/or pulmonary congestion, sacubitril-val-
sartan did not significantly reduce cardiovascular death or
5. STEMI MANAGEMENT: REPERFUSION
incident HF compared with an ACEi. Hypotensive events
STRATEGIES
were more common with sacubitril-valsartan, but no other
safety concerns were observed. Therefore, if treatment 5.1. Regional Systems of STEMI Care
with sacubitril-valsartan for HF with reduced ejection
fraction is planned, initiation of this combination agent Recommendation for Regional Systems of STEMI Care
instead of an ACEi or ARB early after MI appears safe.10 Referenced studies that support recommendation are summarized in
the Evidence Table.
COR LOE Recommendation
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text 1. All communities should create and maintain regional
systems of STEMI care that coordinate prehospital
1. Randomized controlled trials have demonstrated 1 B-NR and hospital-based STEMI care processes with the
a reduction in all-cause death and MACE with goal of reducing total ischemic time and improving
survival in patients with STEMI.1–6
the addition of an oral ACEi in patients with AMI
with LVEF ≤40%1,3 and in patients with anterior
STEMI.2 An individual-patient meta-analysis of Synopsis
98 496 patients with AMI also showed a survival
The goal of optimizing outcomes after STEMI depends
benefit with ACEi use, with the greatest absolute
not only on the efficient execution of STEMI care pro-
benefit in patients with hypertension, diabetes,
cesses but also on the seamless communication and co-
and STEMI of anterior location.4 In the VALIANT
ordination of care among the teams caring for the patient.
(Valsartan in Acute Myocardial Infarction) trial of
The goal of each community is therefore to ensure a co-
patients with AMI with LV systolic dysfunction and/
ordinated response to every patient with STEMI, regard-
or HF symptoms, the use of an ARB was statisti-
less of physical location at presentation, to help minimize
cally noninferior to an ACEi, and rates of all-cause
total ischemic time. The creation and maintenance of
death were similar between the 2 treatment arms.5
successful systems of STEMI care require detailed map-
Concomitant initiation of both an ACEi and ARB
ping of care for all possible routes by which a patient with
in patients with AMI should be avoided due to an
STEMI could present for diagnosis and receive definitive
increase in adverse events without added benefit
reperfusion therapy at both PCI-capable and non–PCI-
compared with either drug alone.5,8
capable facilities, as well as access to cardiac surgical
2. In the EPHESUS (Eplerenone Post-Acute
care and other advanced care modalities (Figure 6).
Myocardial Infarction Heart Failure Efficacy and
The many stakeholders of regional systems of STEMI
Survival Study) trial, the mineralocorticoid recep-
care (including hospitals, EMS companies, regional public
tor antagonist eplerenone reduced both all-cause
health departments, and local governments) must ensure
death and MACE during a mean follow-up of 16
that all components of a STEMI system of care function
months in patients with AMI with LVEF ≤40% who
in a coordinated way with no gaps in care processes to
also had symptoms of HF and/or diabetes melli-
help optimize STEMI outcomes in the community.
tus. The use of evidence-based therapies for this
population was relatively high, including 86% use
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
of ACEi or ARB and 75% use of a beta blocker
at enrollment.7 Patients with advanced chronic 1. The establishment of coordinated regional systems
kidney disease (serum creatinine >2.5 mg/dL) of STEMI care is associated with reduced time to
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e801
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 32 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Figure 6. Care System Pathway for Patients Experiencing Ischemic Symptoms Suggestive of ACS.
Systems of STEMI care, and the most common routes by which patients present for diagnosis and definitive reperfusion therapy for STEMI. Best
clinical practice consists of patients calling 9-1-1 (or other emergency services) to activate EMS; EMS obtaining a prehospital ECG, activating the
cardiac catheterization laboratory from the field for suspected STEMIs, and transporting the patient to the nearest PCI center when possible; and
achieving a system goal of FMC-to-device time within 90 minutes. Colors correspond to Class of Recommendation in Table 2. *Patients with chest
tightness or other symptoms indicative of a heart attack. ACS indicates acute coronary syndromes; ED, emergency department; EMS, emergency
medical services; FMC, first medical contact; PCI, percutaneous coronary intervention; PPCI, primary percutaneous coronary intervention; and
STEMI, ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.
reperfusion and increased survival in STEMI in STEMI and these improvements in reperfusion times
several pre- versus postimplementation compari- have been associated with improved outcomes.5,7
son studies throughout the world.1–6 Over the past Unfortunately, recent declines have been reported
15 years, considerable gains have been made in in the rates of achieving established STEMI per-
reducing FMC to reperfusion times in patients with formance measures,8 in part due to the COVID-19
e802 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 33 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
pandemic and related challenges in ensuring ade- PPCI as soon as possible after the diagnosis of STEMI is
quate resourcing and staffing of EMS agencies and made with first device activation within 90 minutes from
hospitals. Therefore, all communities should continue FMC among walk-in and EMS-transported patients and
to establish, reinvigorate, and maintain regional sys- 120 minutes for transfer patients from non–PCI-capable
tems of STEMI care to improve outcomes of patients facilities.1–7 The benefit of PPCI begins to diminish for
with STEMI globally. The collection of high-quality those >12 hours from symptom onset, but there appears
data at every stage of care is an inseparable compo- to be continued benefit for PPCI through approximately 24
nent of a STEMI system of care. Successful STEMI hours.12,13 In stable asymptomatic patients with an occlud-
systems have robust mechanisms for (1) educating ed artery >48 hours after symptom onset, routine PCI has
the public of the need to immediately call 9-1-1 (or not been shown to be beneficial in the absence of ongoing
other appropriate local emergency services) for isch- ischemia; the relative utility of routine PCI for asymptomatic
emic symptoms and not driving themselves to the patients with STEMI between 24 to 48 hours from symp-
nearest hospital; (2) data collection that balances tom onset is less rigorously tested.14,15 However, coronary
the need for adequate data capture without introduc- revascularization should be considered for patients with
ing data overburden; (3) data sharing within hospital late presentations with continued signs and symptoms of
departments (eg, ED and cardiology) or between ischemia, including cardiogenic shock, acute severe HF,
hospitals and EMS agencies; and (4) meetings to persistent angina, and life-threatening arrhythmias.
review and discuss shared data at local and system
levels to drive process improvement.
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
5.2. Reperfusion at PCI-Capable Hospitals 1. PPCI is the recommended reperfusion therapy in
patients with STEMI and ischemic symptoms when
5.2.1. PPCI in STEMI
performed ≤90 minutes (FMC–to–first-device
Recommendations for PPCI in STEMI activation) or ≤120 minutes in transfer patients to
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized
improve survival.1–7 The success of PPCI in achiev-
in the Evidence Table.
ing these goals was facilitated by the introduction
COR LOE Recommendations
in 2006 of the AHA’s Mission: Lifeline programs
1. In patients with STEMI presenting <12 hours
involving EMS and clinicians (eg, emergency medi-
after symptom onset, PPCI should be performed
1 A with a goal of FMC to device activation of ≤90 cine, cardiology, nursing) with practiced drill-down
minutes, or ≤120 minutes in patients requiring programs and regionalization of care21 that have
hospital transfer, to improve survival.1–7 improved myocardial salvage, as well as reduced risk
2. In patients with ACS and cardiogenic shock or of death and adverse outcomes.4,22,23 PPCI is superior
hemodynamic instability, emergency
to fibrinolytic therapy, which is used when the patient
1 B-R revascularization of the culprit vessel by PCI or
CABG is indicated to improve survival, is in a non–PCI-capable hospital and transfer time
irrespective of time from symptom onset.8–11 to a PCI-capable hospital is anticipated to be >120
3. In patients with STEMI presenting 12 to 24 hours minutes. Compared with fibrinolytic therapy with a
2a B-NR after symptom onset, PPCI is reasonable to similar treatment delay, PPCI offers higher rates of
improve clinical outcomes.*12–15
infarct-related artery patency, and restoring TIMI 3
4. In patients with STEMI presenting >24 hours after
epicardial flow grade, as well as lower rates of recur-
symptom onset with the presence of ongoing
2a C-LD ischemia or life-threatening arrhythmia, PPCI is rent ischemia, reinfarction, emergency repeat revas-
reasonable to improve clinical outcomes.†12,14 cularization procedures, intracranial hemorrhage, and
5. In patients who are stable with STEMI who have death.6,7 Radial access for PPCI has further reduced
a totally occluded infarct-related artery >24 hours death, decreased access site bleeding, decreased
3: No after symptom onset and are without
B-R the need for transfusion, and reduced acute kidney
Benefit evidence of ongoing ischemia, acute severe HF,
or life-threatening arrhythmia, PPCI should not be injury when compared with femoral access (Section
performed due to lack of benefit.†16,17 7.1, “Vascular Access Approach for PCI”).24,25
*Reproduced or 2. In the SHOCK (Should We Emergently Revascularize
†modified from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery Occluded Coronaries for Cardiogenic Shock) trial,9
Revascularization.”18
reported in 1999, patients with AMI and cardiogenic
shock were randomized to medical therapy or emer-
Synopsis
gency revascularization. Among the patients ran-
Timely PPCI confers improved survival compared with fibri- domized to revascularization, 64% of patients were
nolytic therapy as primary reperfusion therapy for patients referred for PCI and 36% for CABG surgery. The
with STEMI.6,7 Systems of care designed to reduce the time median time from randomization to revascularization
to PPCI for patients with STEMI have been consequential was 0.9 hours for PCI and 2.7 hours for CABG sur-
in reducing risk of early death.19,20 The goal is to provide gery. Despite lack of a significant difference in the
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e803
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 34 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
primary endpoint of mortality at 30 days, emergency Synopsis
revascularization with either PCI or CABG surgery
Trials that evaluated the efficacy and safety of CABG
reduced mortality at 6 months,9 and the mortal-
surgery in STEMI are limited.4 When PCI is not possible
ity rate benefit was maintained through 1 and 6
for anatomic reasons or in the presence of complex dis-
years.26,27 In an observational analysis from the FITT-
ease, CABG surgery can be performed as the primary
STEMI (Feedback Intervention and Treatment Times
reperfusion strategy. After successful reperfusion of the
in ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction) trial, for every
infarct-related artery, CABG surgery can also be impor-
10-minute delay in PPCI after 60 minutes from
tant when managing patients with more extensive nonin-
FMC, there were an additional 3 to 4 deaths per
farct-related artery disease (Section 7.4.1, “Management
100 with >80% mortality beyond 6 hours of delay
of Multivessel CAD in STEMI”). The appropriate timing
from FMC for patients with cardiogenic shock.8
of CABG surgery in patients with STEMI should be de-
Therefore, it is recommended that PPCI should be
termined on an individual basis, taking into consideration
performed in patients with STEMI and cardiogenic
the hemodynamic stability of the patient, the presence of
shock as soon as possible, ideally within 90 minutes,
ongoing ischemia, and extent of myocardium at risk. Af-
to reduce the mortality rate. Observational studies
ter failed PPCI, emergency CABG surgery is not recom-
suggest that emergency CABG surgery remains a
mended in the absence of a large area of myocardium at
treatment option in patients with cardiogenic shock
risk or if surgical targets are poor and if surgery may be
who are not amenable to primary reperfusion with
associated with an increased risk of death and adverse
PCI10,11 or when PCI is not successful.11,28
cardiovascular outcomes compared with nonsurgical
3. The benefit of PCI for asymptomatic patients pre-
management.5 For recommendations regarding CABG
senting 12 to 24 hours after symptom onset is not
surgery in patients presenting with cardiogenic shock or
well studied. Small randomized trials of patients 12
mechanical complications, please refer to Section 8.1,
to 48 hours after symptom onset in STEMI have
“Revascularization in ACS With Cardiogenic Shock” and
demonstrated that PPCI reduces infarct size and
Section 9.1, “Mechanical Complications.”
improves the LVEF.12,14 These findings are further
supported by observational data.13,15
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
4. No dedicated trials have been done that examine the
benefit of PPCI in patients with STEMI presenting 1. No RCTs have been done that compare PPCI with
late >24 hours after symptom onset who have clini- surgical revascularization in the setting of STEMI.
cal evidence of ongoing ischemia, acute severe HF, For patients with STEMI who are hemodynamically
or life-threatening arrhythmias. Observational data stable with anatomy of the infarct-related artery that
and small trials suggest that PCI in patients with is not amenable to PPCI, or if PPCI is unsuccessful,
STEMI with delayed presentations is reasonable CABG surgery can be useful if there is a large area
and is associated with improved outcomes.12,14,15 of myocardium at risk. In such patients, particularly
5. PCI is not recommended for an occluded infarct- in the presence of ongoing ischemia or if a large
related artery if the patient is asymptomatic and has area of myocardium is at risk, CABG surgery may be
a completed infarct. MACE outcomes were similar in effectively performed as a primary reperfusion strat-
those with an occluded infarct-related artery versus egy or after PPCI.1,2 Despite an increase in the acu-
those who underwent PCI 3 to 28 days after an MI ity of presentation and the burden of comorbidities,
(Occluded Artery Trial [OAT])16 and results were no the in-hospital mortality rate after CABG surgery in
different at 7 years follow-up.29 Similar findings were patients with STEMI continues to decrease.1,4
noted in the DECOPI (Desobstruction Coronaire en
Post-Infarctus) trial, which enrolled patients with an
5.3. Reperfusion at Non–PCI-Capable Hospitals
occluded artery and Q waves on the ECG present-
ing 2 to 15 days after symptom onset.17 Recommendations for Reperfusion at Non–PCI-Capable Hospitals
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized
in the Evidence Table.
5.2.2. Urgent CABG Surgery
COR LOE Recommendations
Recommendation for Urgent CABG Surgery
Referenced studies that support recommendation are summarized in 1. In patients with STEMI and an estimated time
the Evidence Table. from FMC to device activation of ≤120 minutes
1 A or those with a contraindication to fibrinolytic
COR LOE Recommendation therapy, transfer to a PCI-capable hospital for
PPCI is recommended to reduce MACE.1–3
1. In patients with STEMI in whom PCI is not feasible
or successful, with a large area of myocardium at 2. In patients with STEMI and symptom onset
2a B-NR
risk, emergency or urgent CABG surgery can be of <12 hours and anticipated delay to PPCI
effective to improve clinical outcomes.*1,2 1 A >120 minutes from FMC, fibrinolytic therapy
should be administered in patients without
*Modified from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery Re-
contraindication to reduce MACE.4–10
vascularization.”3
e804 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 35 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
mortality rates for a pharmaco-invasive approach
Recommendations for Reperfusion at Non–PCI-Capable Hospitals
(Continued) (eg, fibrinolytic therapy followed by PCI within
2 to 24 hours) when a patient does not have
COR LOE Recommendations
timely access to PPCI.4,5 The STREAM (Strategic
3. In patients with STEMI and symptom onset of
12 to 24 hours, transfer to a PCI-capable Reperfusion Early After Myocardial Infarction) trial,
2a B-NR
hospital for PPCI is reasonable to reduce which randomized 1892 early presenters (symp-
infarct size and MACE.11,12
toms <3 hours) with STEMI unable to receive PCI
4. In patients with only ST-segment depres- within 1 hour of FMC, found that both a 30-day
sion, except when true posterior STEMI is
composite (eg, death, shock, CHF, or reinfarction)
3: Harm B-R suspected, fibrinolytic therapy should not be
administered due to risk of hemorrhagic stroke and 1-year mortality rates were similar for prehos-
and major noncerebral bleeding.13 pital fibrinolysis versus transfer for PPCI.10,22
3. Small studies suggest that PPCI continues to
offer clinical benefit in patients 12 to 24 hours
Synopsis after symptoms onset; therefore, transfer to a PCI-
capable hospital is reasonable.11,12 Late presenters
A large proportion of patients globally live >1 hour driving
with STEMI who have associated hemodynamic
time to a PCI-capable hospital.14–17 At non–PCI-capable
instability or large infarct size are at very high risk for
hospitals, transfer for PPCI is recommended if device ac-
acute deterioration and long-term morbidity. In this
tivation can be reasonably predicted to occur in <2 hours
situation, fibrinolytic administration may outweigh
from FMC. If this cannot be achieved and symptoms have
potential risks when timely PPCI is not possible.
been present <12 hours, fibrinolytic therapy is recom-
Fibrinolysis in this setting should be followed by
mended to reduce the risk of recurrent MACE. Patients
transfer to a PCI-capable center as soon as feasible.
with STEMI who present to a non–PCI-capable facility
4. There is no benefit of fibrinolysis and there is
≥12 hours after onset of symptoms should be trans-
potential harm (eg, hemorrhagic stroke and major
ferred to a PCI-capable facility when possible. However,
noncerebral bleeding) in administering fibrinolytic if the patient has associated hemodynamic instability or
therapy to patients who present with symptoms
a large infarct territory at risk, they are at very high risk
concerning for ACS without ST-segment elevation
for morbidity and death, and in this situation where timely
or suspected true posterior STEMI.13
PPCI is not possible, the benefits of fibrinolytic adminis-
tration likely outweigh the benefit of prolonged transfer 5.3.1. Timing and Choice of Agent for Fibrinolytic
for PPCI. Therapy
Synopsis
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
PPCI remains the reperfusion modality of choice when
1. PPCI is recommended to reduce the risk of MACE it can be rapidly achieved in a patient with STEMI. In in-
when FMC to PPCI can be achieved within 120 stances where this is not possible or cannot be achieved
minutes. A patient who presents to a non–PCI- in a timely manner, the benefits of coronary reperfusion
capable hospital with STEMI should be transferred with fibrinolytic therapy in patients with STEMI are well
to a PCI-capable hospital when this intervention established, with a time-dependent reduction in both
can be accomplished within 120 minutes.1,2,18 mortality and morbidity rates during the initial 12 hours
System delays related to transfer are frequently after symptom onset, especially in those who present ear-
underestimated, and a case-by-case approach ly after symptom onset with low bleeding risk and large
should be calculated for each patient with STEMI anterior infarctions.1–7 The benefit of fibrinolytic therapy
prior to transfer for PPCI.19–21 in patients who present >12 hours after symptom on-
2. The use of fibrinolytic therapy in STEMI in the set has not been established,8–10 although consideration
United States is driven by patients who are unable should be given to administering a fibrinolytic agent in
to receive timely PPCI (<120 minutes FMC to symptomatic patients presenting >12 hours after symp-
device activation). Numerous RCTs and meta-anal- tom onset of STEMI with a large area of myocardium
yses have demonstrated superiority to PPCI over at risk or hemodynamic instability, if PCI is unavailable.
fibrinolytic therapy. However, the benefits of PPCI Fibrin-specific fibrinolytic therapies are preferred over
versus fibrinolytic therapy diminish with increasing non–fibrin-specific agents due to superior patency rates
PCI-related time delay such that after 120 minutes, and less immunogenicity (Table 13).11–16 Tenecteplase is
the benefits are no longer as clear when compared a genetically engineered version of alteplase with higher
with more timely fibrinolytic therapy administra- specificity for fibrin. In a large randomized trial of patients
tion.19 In these patients, when timely PPCI cannot with AMI, tenecteplase and alteplase were equivalent for
be performed, meta-analyses of RCTs and observa- 30-day mortality rates, but tenecteplase was associated
tional studies show statistically similar morbidity and with reduced noncerebral bleeding.17 Reteplase (recom-
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e805
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 36 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Table 13. Fibrin-Specific Fibrinolytic Agents for STEMI Table 14. Absolute and Relative Contraindications for Fibri-
nolytic Therapy in STEMI*
Fibrinolytic Agent Dose
Absolute Contraindications
Tenecteplase (TNK-tPA) Single IV weight-based bolus*
Any prior ICH
Reteplase (rPA) Two 10-unit IV boluses given 30 min apart
(administered over 2 min) Known structural cerebral vascular lesion (eg, arteriovenous malformation)
Alteplase (tPA) 90-min weight-based infusion† Known malignant intracranial neoplasm (primary or metastatic)
Streptokinase is no longer available in the United States. Ischemic stroke within 3 mo except acute ischemic stroke†
*30 mg for weight <60 kg; 35 mg for 60-69 kg; 40 mg for 70-79 kg; 45 mg
Suspected aortic dissection
for 80-89 kg; and 50 mg for ≥90 kg.
†Adults ≥67 kg: 100-mg total dosage administered as a 15-mg IV bolus, fol- Active bleeding or bleeding diathesis (excluding menses)
lowed by 50-mg IV infused over 30 min, and then 35-mg IV infused over the
Significant closed-head or facial trauma within 3 mo
next 60 min. Adults <67 kg: 15-mg IV bolus, followed by 0.75 mg/kg IV (not to
exceed 50 mg) infused over 30 min, and then 0.5 mg/kg IV (not to exceed 35 Intracranial or intraspinal surgery within 2 mo
mg) over the next 60 min.
rPA indicates reteplase plasminogen activator; TNK-tPA, tenecteplase tissue- Severe uncontrolled hypertension (unresponsive to therapy) (SBP >180
type plasminogen activator; and tPA, tissue-type plasminogen activator. mm Hg or DBP >110 mm Hg)
Relative Contraindications
binant plasminogen activator) has not been shown to im- History of chronic, severe, poorly controlled hypertension
prove survival compared with alteplase in patients with Significant hypertension on presentation (SBP >180 mm Hg or DBP >110
mm Hg)
MI, but its convenient bolus dosing allows for greater
ease of use.18 Adjunctive antiplatelet and/or anticoagu- History of prior ischemic stroke >3 mo
lant therapies are indicated, regardless of the choice of Dementia
fibrinolytic agent (Sections 4.3.2., “Oral P2Y12 Inhibitors Known intracranial pathology not covered in absolute contraindications
During Hospitalization,” and 4.4, “Parenteral Anticoagula-
Traumatic or prolonged (>10 min) CPR
tion”). Absolute and relative contraindications for fibrino-
Major surgery (<3 wk)
lytic therapy are listed in Table 14.
Recent (within 2 to 4 wk) internal bleeding
Patients should be transferred to a PCI-capable
Noncompressible vascular punctures
hospital after initiation of fibrinolytic therapy for routine
coronary angiography (Section 5.3.2., “Coronary Angiog- Pregnancy
raphy and PCI After Fibrinolytic Therapy”). Signs of failed Active peptic ulcer
reperfusion are discussed in Section 5.3.2. Oral anticoagulant therapy
*Viewed as advisory for clinical decision-making and may not be all-inclusive
5.3.2. Coronary Angiography and PCI After
or definitive.
Fibrinolytic Therapy †Acute ischemic stroke within 4.5 h of onset.
CPR indicates cardiopulmonary resuscitation; DBP; diastolic blood pressure;
Recommendations for Coronary Angiography and PCI After Fibrinolytic
ICH, intracranial hemorrhage; SBP, systolic blood pressure; and STEMI, ST-seg-
Therapy
ment elevation myocardial infarction.
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized in
the Evidence Table.
fibrinolytic therapy should be transferred to a PCI-capa-
COR LOE Recommendations
ble hospital to facilitate immediate or early catheteriza-
1. In patients with STEMI, transfer to a
1 A PCI-capable center immediately after tion depending on the clinical circumstances. Hospitals
fibrinolytic therapy is recommended.1–5 should have transfer protocols in place to allow for a
2. In patients with STEMI with suspected seamless transfer to the PCI-capable facility as soon
failed reperfusion after fibrinolytic therapy, as it is safe to do so. A detailed assessment of clinical
1 B-R immediate angiography with rescue PCI is
status is critical to determine the timing of angiography.
recommended to reduce the risk of death or
recurrent MI.*6–9 A lack of improvement in ischemic symptoms, persistent
3. In patients with STEMI treated with fibrino- ST-segment elevation (<50% resolution of ST-segment
lytic therapy, early angiography between 2 elevation in the anterior leads or <70% in inferior leads
1 B-R and 24 hours with the intent to perform PCI
[measured either from the lead with maximal baseline ST
is recommended to reduce the rates of death
or MI.*1–5,10,11 elevation or as the sum of ST-segment deviation across
leads]),13 or hemodynamic or electrical instability can in-
*Modified from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery
Revascularization.”12 dicate incomplete reperfusion by fibrinolytic therapy.14
When there are signs of failed reperfusion, patients
should undergo immediate coronary angiography and
Synopsis
rescue PCI. For the remaining patients, routine coronary
Failure of reperfusion and risk of reocclusion after suc- angiography within 2 to 24 hours after fibrinolytic ther-
cessful fibrinolytic therapy are important limitations of apy with coronary revascularization as needed is recom-
fibrinolytic therapy. For this reason, all patients receiving mended.
e806 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 37 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text of fibrinolysis alone.18 Furthermore, contemporary
registries have shown an association between a
1. Numerous clinical trials have evaluated a strategy
pharmaco-invasive approach and improved out-
of early coronary angiography with possible PCI
comes compared with PPCI when transfer times
after fibrinolytic therapy. This strategy of immediate are long.19 The optimal timing of angiography and
transfer and angiography has been associated with
PCI after fibrinolytic therapy has not been clearly
lower rates of recurrent ischemic events as com-
defined but a similar benefit in ischemic endpoints
pared with usual care.1–5 Regardless of the timing
is evident across the spectrum of times included
of angiography, immediate transfer enables earlier
in the clinical trials.17,20 Although earlier studies
access to specialized centers, providing critical
raised concerns for increased bleeding with very
care services and on-site catheterization laboratory
early catheterization (mean time, 2.2 hours),21 more
teams that can facilitate clinical assessments to
contemporary data suggest similar rates of bleed-
determine the likelihood of reperfusion and enable
ing even if cardiac catheterization is performed very
earlier angiography for the unstable patient.
early after fibrinolytic therapy.17,20
2. Rescue PCI is associated with improved outcomes
in patients with clinical signs of failed reperfu-
sion after fibrinolytic therapy. Several trials have
6. NSTE-ACS: ROUTINE INVASIVE OR
demonstrated a trend toward lower mortality and
SELECTIVE INVASIVE INITIAL APPROACH
significantly lower rates of recurrent MI and HF
when rescue PCI is performed for failed fibrinoly- 6.1. Rationale and Timing for a Routine Invasive
sis.6,7 The REACT (Rapid Early Action for Coronary
or Selective Invasive Approach
Treatment) trial6 enrolled 427 patients with failed
reperfusion at 90 minutes after fibrinolysis to 1 of Recommendations for Rationale and Timing for a Routine Invasive or
3 treatment arms, including rescue PCI, conserva- Selective Invasive Approach
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized in
tive care, or repeat fibrinolytic therapy. Rescue PCI
the Evidence Table.
significantly reduced the composite primary end-
COR LOE Recommendations
point of death, reinfarction, stroke, or severe HF at
Routine Invasive Versus Selective Invasive Strategy
6 months compared with either conservative care
or repeat fibrinolytic therapy. Meta-analyses also 1. In patients with NSTE-ACS who are at
intermediate or high risk of ischemic events and
support lower rates of death or reinfarction when
are appropriate candidates for revascularization,
rescue PCI is performed in this setting.8,9 Minor 1 A an invasive approach with the intent to proceed
and major bleeding and rates of stroke were sig- with revascularization is recommended during
hospitalization to reduce MACE.*1–6
nificantly higher with rescue PCI.6–8 These studies
were performed in the era of femoral artery access, 2. In patients with NSTE-ACS who are at low risk of
ischemic events, either a routine invasive or
with fewer options for antiplatelet and anticoagu-
1 A selective invasive approach is recommended to
lant therapy. The use of radial artery access15 and help identify those who may require
the elimination of the routine use of glycoprotein revascularization and to reduce MACE.1–4,7
IIb/IIIa inhibitors has reduced bleeding. For this Timing of Coronary Angiography for Those in Whom an Invasive
Approach Is Planned
reason, the balance of benefit from rescue PCI
outweighs the risks for most patients with evidence 3. In patients with NSTE-ACS who have refractory
angina or hemodynamic or electrical instability, an
of failed reperfusion after fibrinolysis. 1 C-LD
immediate invasive strategy with intent to perform
3. Routine early angiography with the intent to perform revascularization is indicated to reduce MACE.†8–11
PCI after fibrinolysis reduces MACE in comparison 4. In patients with NSTE-ACS who are at high risk‡
to usual care (delayed coronary angiography and/ of ischemic events, it is reasonable to choose an
2a B-R
early invasive strategy (within 24 hours) to reduce
or an ischemia-guided strategy of revasculariza-
MACE.†8,9,11,12
tion).1–5,11,16 In these studies, >80% of patients who
5. In patients with NSTE-ACS who are not at high
were transferred underwent PCI to treat a significant
risk and are intended for an invasive strategy, it is
residual stenosis or suboptimal flow of the infarct- 2a B-R reasonable to perform angiography before
related artery. Meta-analyses of the RCTs showed hospital discharge to reduce MACE.*8,11
a reduction in the combined endpoint of death or *Reproduced or
reinfarction with an early invasive approach after †modified from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery Re-
vascularization.”7
fibrinolytic therapy.10,17,18 In a network meta-analysis
‡Predictors of risk are outlined in Figure 8.
evaluating clinical outcomes with different modes of
reperfusion for STEMI, a pharmaco-invasive strat-
Synopsis
egy (defined as an interval between lysis and PCI
≥2 hours) was associated with a 21% reduction in A routine invasive approach refers to a strategy of
the mortality rate when compared with a strategy performing coronary angiography with the intent to
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e807
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 38 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
perform coronary revascularization by PCI or CABG (as hospital discharge. Patients with higher risk findings
appropriate) in patients with NSTE-ACS. This approach on noninvasive testing or who have recurrent ischemic
provides important prognostic information, including de- symptoms should be referred for invasive coronary an-
lineating the extent and severity of CAD. Several RCTs giography prior to hospital discharge in the absence of
have demonstrated that a routine invasive approach contraindication (Figure 7).
in patients with NSTE-ACS reduces the risk of MACE
when compared with a selective invasive approach.1–3
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
Notably, these strategy trials were conducted in an era
prior to the availability of hs-cTn assays, routine use 1. In patients with NSTE-ACS, a routine invasive
of radial approach for coronary angiography, newer approach improves clinical outcomes, including
generation drug-eluting stents, and contemporary ev- lower rates of recurrent MI and recurrent isch-
idence-based antiplatelet therapies. Patients who are emia, compared with a selective invasive approach
at prohibitively high risk from angiography or who have that involves further noninvasive risk stratification
known coronary anatomy or preferences that preclude prior to consideration of angiography.1–3 In a col-
revascularization (PCI or CABG) may be managed non- laborative meta-analysis of RCTs, a routine inva-
invasively.13 In addition, some low-risk patients, particu- sive approach reduced death or MI by 18% (OR,
larly those who have normal cardiac biomarkers and 0.82 [95% CI, 0.72-0.93]), including a 25% reduc-
in whom a diagnosis of an ACS is questioned, should tion in MI (OR, 0.75 [95% CI, 0.65-0.88]) when
be considered for a “selective invasive” approach that compared with a selective invasive approach.5 The
includes further noninvasive risk stratification prior to benefit was more apparent in higher risk patients
consideration of coronary angiography, because they with elevated biomarkers.4 The studies that estab-
derive less benefit from a routine invasive approach.4,7,13 lished the benefit of a routine invasive approach
These low-risk patients should still undergo noninva- were conducted in the late 1990s and early
sive stress testing or coronary CT angiography prior to 2000s, and it is unknown whether contemporary
Figure 7. Selection of a Routine Invasive Versus Selected Invasive Strategy in Patients With NSTE-ACS.
Colors correspond to Class of Recommendation in Table 2. *AHA Scientific Statement on MINOCA.17 CABG indicates coronary artery bypass
grafting; CCTA, cardiac CT angiography; MINOCA, myocardial infarction with nonobstructive coronary artery disease; NSTE-ACS, non–ST-
segment elevation acute coronary syndromes; and PCI, percutaneous coronary intervention.
e808 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 39 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
therapies and advances in interventional methods 3. Patients with NSTE-ACS who are unstable (eg,
would yield different results. Similarly, elevated refractory or recurrent angina [despite optimal
cardiac biomarkers (CK-MB and older genera- medical therapy, hemodynamic or electrical instabil-
tion troponin assays) identify those who benefit ity, acute pulmonary edema or HF, worsening mitral
more from a routine invasive strategy; however, regurgitation]) have been largely excluded from
it remains unknown whether hs-cTn assays that RCTs. Despite a relative paucity of clinical trial data,
detect smaller degrees of myonecrosis are as these patients are at heightened risk of adverse
useful for identifying those who benefit from rou- outcomes, and an immediate invasive strategy (<2
tine coronary angiography. Although women are hours from hospital admission) with intention to
less likely to have obstructive coronary disease at perform revascularization is recommended.8,15 If
angiography, they derive as much benefit from a patients with ACS and unstable features are at a
routine invasive approach in the presence of simi- non–PCI-capable hospital, they should be imme-
lar risk predictors.4 The GRACE 2.0 risk calculator diately transferred to a PCI-capable facility with a
and TIMI Risk Score for unstable angina/NSTEMI goal of immediate angiography. Clinical features
may help identify patients at increased risk of that support immediate coronary angiography with
MACE who benefit more from a routine invasive intent to revascularize are listed in Figure 8.
approach (Table 5).1 Relative contraindications to 4. For patients with NSTE-ACS for whom the deci-
coronary angiography that merit further consider- sion has been made to proceed with coronary angi-
ation of the relative risks and benefits of a routine ography, the benefit of an early invasive versus a
invasive approach are outlined in Table 15. delayed invasive approach is unclear.8,9,11,12 In the
2. Although some trials have demonstrated a reduc- TIMACS (Timing of Intervention in Acute Coronary
tion in MACE with a routine invasive approach in Syndromes) trial,11 patients were enrolled within
NSTE-ACS,1–3 others have not demonstrated a 24 hours of symptoms and randomized to early
significant benefit when compared with a selective angiography within 24 hours versus delayed angi-
approach that involves further risk stratification.4,7 ography ≥36 hours from time of randomization.
Although a pooled analysis of 3 randomized tri- In the VERDICT (Very Early vs Deferred Invasive
als suggested that the benefit of a routine invasive Evaluation Using Computerized Tomography) trial,12
approach was independent of baseline risk,6 other patients were randomized to early angiography
meta-analyses across studies have suggested within 12 hours versus delayed between 48 to 72
that lower risk patients may derive less bene- hours from time of diagnosis. Both studies reported
fit.4,5,14 In addition, some low-risk patients, particu- no significant difference in MACE between an ear-
larly those who have normal cardiac biomarkers lier versus delayed invasive approach in the over-
in whom a diagnosis of an ACS is suspect, may all study populations, but there was signal toward
have improved outcomes with a selective invasive a reduction in MACE with an earlier invasive
approach.4,5 These patients should preferentially approach in the higher risk patients with a GRACE
undergo noninvasive stress testing or coronary risk score >140.11,12 In a meta-analysis of RCTs
CT angiography prior to hospital discharge to help that compared an early versus delayed approach, a
determine the need for coronary angiography; mortality benefit was not seen with earlier angiog-
however, patients with suspected ongoing isch- raphy. However, factors that favored an earlier inva-
emic symptoms should be considered for coronary sive approach included a GRACE risk score >140,
angiography. diabetes, age >75 years, and elevated cardiac bio-
markers (although formal tests for interaction were
not significant).8 Although not evaluated in RCTs, a
Table 15. Relative Contraindications for a Routine Invasive continuing steep rise in cardiac biomarkers, likely
Approach in ACS due to ongoing ischemia and myonecrosis despite
High risk for bleeding on DAPT optimized medical therapy, may also favor earlier
coronary angiography.
Severe thrombocytopenia (platelet count <50 × 109/L)
5. In intermediate- or low-risk patients for whom
Advanced kidney disease (not on dialysis)
angiography is planned in NSTE-ACS, timing does
Acute renal failure
not appear to be critical, and a delayed invasive
Limited (<1-2 y) life expectancy strategy within 48 to 72 hours does not appear to
Advanced dementia increase future risk of MACE.8,10–12,15 Randomized
Known coronary anatomy that precludes PCI and/or CABG surgery trial data have not demonstrated an overall signifi-
cant difference in death or MI between an earlier
Patient preference
versus delayed invasive approach in nonselected
ACS indicates acute coronary syndromes; CABG, coronary artery bypass graft-
patients with NSTEMI.8,11,12,16
ing; DAPT, dual antiplatelet therapy; and PCI, percutaneous coronary intervention.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e809
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 40 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Figure 8. Selection and Timing of an Invasive Strategy in NSTE-ACS.
Figure 8 summarizes the recommendations in the 2025 ACS Guideline for a routine or selective invasive approach in NSTE-ACS. It is not meant
to encompass every patient scenario or situation, and clinicians are encouraged to use a Heart Team approach when care decisions are unclear
and to see the accompanying supportive text for each recommendation. Colors correspond to Class of Recommendation in Table 2. GRACE
indicates Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events; HF, heart failure; NSTE-ACS, non–ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes; Tn,
troponin; TIMI, Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction; VF, ventricular fibrillation; and VT, ventricular tachycardia. Adapted with permission from
Lawton et al.18 Copyright 2022 American Heart Association, Inc., and American College of Cardiology Foundation.
low crossover rates because they required operators with
7. CATHETERIZATION LABORATORY
expertise in radial access.3 The choice of radial access has
CONSIDERATIONS IN ACS
to be weighed against the possibility that the radial artery
7.1. Vascular Access Approach for PCI could be used as a bypass conduit for CABG surgery.10
In sites where surgeons routinely utilize the radial artery
Recommendation for Vascular Access Approach for PCI as a bypass conduit, consideration should be given on
Referenced studies that support recommendation are summarized in
the choice of vascular access and future use of radial
the Evidence Table.
artery for the cardiovascular surgical team. Although the
COR LOE Recommendation
radial artery is the most widely studied wrist access site,
1. In patients with ACS undergoing PCI, a radial the use of alternative sites in the upper extremity, includ-
approach is preferred to a femoral approach to
1 A ing the ulnar and distal radial arteries have yielded similar
reduce bleeding, vascular complications, and
death.*1–6 outcomes.11,12 Transfemoral access, preferably with the
use of ultrasound guidance, should be considered in pa-
*Modified from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery Re-
vascularization.”7 tients in whom temporary MCS is planned and is the de-
fault alternative access site among patients in whom the
Synopsis radial artery cannot be used due to clinical, anatomical,
or technical reasons.13
The radial artery has become the preferred vascular ac-
cess site for patients undergoing cardiac catheterization
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
and PCI.8,9 Transradial access is associated with lower
mortality, bleeding, and vascular complications in patients 1. RCTs have consistently demonstrated the ben-
treated for ACS.5 In addition, patients prefer radial ac- efit of radial access in comparison with femoral
cess because it allows earlier ambulation and causes access among patients treated for ACS. A meta-
less discomfort than femoral access.9 A caveat is most analysis using individual patient data from 7 high-
trials comparing radial versus femoral access had very quality RCTs (48.6% with NSTE-ACS; 46.2% with
e810 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 41 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
STEMI) demonstrated that radial access was inde- analysis showed that mechanical thrombectomy during
pendently associated with a significant 24% and STEMI was not superior to conventional PCI alone.
51% relative risk reduction of all-cause death and
major bleeding, respectively, when compared with Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
femoral access.3 The magnitude of the mortal-
ity benefit was greater among patients with lower 1. Results from several RCTs have shown that routine
baseline hemoglobin levels. The benefit of radial manual aspiration thrombectomy prior to PCI does
access toward reducing bleeding was driven by not reduce MI size or improve clinical outcomes
a significant reduction in access-site bleeding. as compared with PCI alone.1,2,4,12,13 In a patient-
Vascular complications were significantly reduced level, pooled analysis comprising 3 RCTs, aspiration
by 62%. The MATRIX trial6 demonstrated a sig- thrombectomy did not reduce the primary endpoint
nificantly lower rate of the coprimary endpoints of of cardiovascular death at 30 days among patients
MACE and net adverse clinical events (composites with STEMI undergoing PPCI (n=18 306).3
of death, MI, and stroke at 30 days, and MACE plus Similarly, aspiration thrombectomy did not lower
non-CABG major bleeding) among patients with risks for recurrent MI, target vessel revasculariza-
ACS randomized to the transradial approach com- tion, stent thrombosis, or HF at 30 days or 1 year.
pared with the transfemoral approach. This is con- With respect to safety, the incidence of stroke or
sistent with prior meta-analyses that have reported transient ischemic attack at 30 days and 1 year
lower mortality and bleeding with radial access in was numerically higher, albeit not statistically sig-
patients with ACS.4,14 The SAFARI-STEMI (Safety nificant, among patients who underwent aspiration
and Efficacy of Femoral Access versus Radial for thrombectomy. Reductions in cardiovascular death
Primary Percutaneous Intervention in ST-Elevation were lower while risks for stroke or transient isch-
Myocardial Infarction) trial showed no difference in emic attack were higher among those with a large
30-day mortality rates between radial and femo- thrombus burden treated with aspiration thrombec-
ral access; however, the trial stopped early and tomy. Dedicated studies are warranted to evaluate
therefore was underpowered to detect a mortality the role of selective aspiration thrombectomy in
benefit.15 those high-risk patients most likely to benefit from
thrombus removal prior to PCI. Manual aspiration
thrombectomy may be performed as a bailout pro-
7.2. Use of Aspiration Thrombectomy
cedure to remove thrombus that persists after bal-
loon angioplasty or stent deployment, particularly
Recommendation for Use of Aspiration Thrombectomy
with concomitant no-reflow. Estimates from RCT Referenced studies that support recommendation are summarized in
the Evidence Table. cohorts indicate that 4% to 7% of patients with
COR LOE Recommendation STEMI undergoing PPCI will require bailout aspira-
tion thrombectomy.1,2,10
1. Among patients with STEMI undergoing PPCI,
3: No manual aspiration thrombectomy should not be
A
benefit performed routinely prior to PCI given lack of
7.3. Use of Intracoronary Imaging
clinical benefit.*1–4
*Modified from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery Re- Recommendation for Use of Intracoronary Imaging
vascularization.”5
Referenced studies that support recommendation are summarized in
the Evidence Table.
Synopsis COR LOE Recommendation
1. In patients with ACS undergoing coronary stent
Despite restoration of coronary patency, suboptimal myo-
implantation in left main artery or in complex
cardial perfusion resulting from distal embolization or mi- lesions, intracoronary imaging with intravascular
1 A
crovascular obstruction is frequent and is associated with ultrasound (IVUS) or optical coherence tomogra-
phy (OCT) is recommended for procedural
larger infarct size, impairment of LV function, and excess
guidance to reduce ischemic events.*1–11
mortality rates.6,7 Removing coronary artery thrombus pri-
*Adapted from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery Re-
or to balloon angioplasty, stent deployment, or both is an
vascularization.”12
intuitive adjunct to PPCI that may yield putative clinical
benefits. Routine manual thrombus aspiration performed
Synopsis
via low profile catheters improved electrocardiographic
and angiographic markers of myocardial perfusion in Intracoronary imaging serves as a valuable tool for guid-
several clinical studies8,9 and reduced adverse events in ing the placement of coronary stents, particularly in cases
a single-center trial.10,11 However, subsequent trials of involving the left main artery or complex lesions, resulting
manual aspiration thrombectomy have not demonstrated in greater stent expansion, less stent malapposition, and
a clinical benefit.1,2,4,12,13 Similarly, results from a pooled fewer coronary dissections.1,2,4,13 IVUS provides a com-
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e811
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 42 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
prehensive view of the vessel wall, allowing for the evalu- were also significantly lower with OCT-guided PCI
ation of plaque burden, calcification extent, lesion length, compared with angiography-guided PCI. A minimum
and external elastic lamina diameter before stent place- stent area of <4.5 to 5.0 mm2 by OCT is considered
ment. It also facilitates the assessment of minimum stent to be an independent predictor of MACE.16,17 Two
area, malapposition, underexpansion, tissue protrusion, large network meta-analyses showed that, in aggre-
edge disease, and edge dissection after stent deploy- gate, intracoronary imaging guidance (with either
ment.14 OCT utilizes infrared light to produce high-res- IVUS or OCT) for PCI decreases cardiac death, tar-
olution images of the vessel wall, offering specific ad- get vessel MI, target lesion revascularization, and
vantages in assessing calcium thickness, lipid presence, stent thrombosis.11,18
thrombus formation, fibroatheroma, and plaque rupture,
which is particularly helpful in patients with ACS. It is also
7.4. Management of Multivessel CAD in ACS
useful for examining stent strut neointimal thickness,
apposition, and edge dissections. However, it has limita- 7.4.1. Management of Multivessel CAD in STEMI
tions regarding imaging depth and requires the injection
Recommendations for Management of Multivessel CAD in STEMI
of contrast to clear blood, limiting its utility in cases of os- Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized in
tial left main disease. Both IVUS and OCT play essential the Evidence Table.
roles in evaluating the necessity for lesion preparation, COR LOE Recommendations
choosing the appropriate stent size, reducing the likeli- 1. In selected, hemodynamically stable patients with
hood of geographical errors, confirming proper stent ex- STEMI and multivessel disease (MVD), after
successful PCI of the infarct-related artery, PCI of
pansion, identifying complications, and determining the
1 A significantly stenosed* noninfarct-related
underlying reasons for stent failure.14,15 arteries is recommended to reduce the risk of
death or MI and improve angina-related quality of
life (QOL).†1–9
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text 2. In appropriate patients with STEMI and complex
MVD, after successful PCI of the infarct-related
1. Randomized trials including patients with ACS artery, elective CABG surgery for significantly
have shown that intracoronary imaging guidance 2a C-EO stenosed noninfarct-related arteries involving the
is associated with lower risk of target vessel failure left anterior descending artery or left main
disease is reasonable to reduce the risk of
(cardiac death, target vessel MI, or ischemia-driven
cardiovascular events.†
target vessel revascularization) in patients undergo-
3. In selected hemodynamically stable patients
ing PCI.1–4 The advantages of intracoronary imag-
with STEMI and low-complexity MVD (those not
ing are sustained over time and can be extended intended for CABG surgery), multivessel PCI
to less complex lesions.5 Renovate-Complex PCI 2b B-R of significantly stenosed noninfarct-related
arteries at the time of PPCI may be preferred (Randomized Controlled Trial of Intravascular
over a staged approach to reduce the risk of
Imaging Guidance versus Angiography-Guidance cardiovascular events.10–12
on Clinical Outcomes after Complex Percutaneous 4. In patients with STEMI complicated by cardiogenic
Coronary Intervention) demonstrated a significant shock, routine PCI of a noninfarct-related artery
3: Harm B-R at the time of PPCI should not be performed
reduction in target vessel failure with intracoro-
because of the higher risk of death or renal
nary guidance (IVUS or OCT) versus angiographic failure.*13–15
guidance after a median follow-up of 2.1 years.1
*Significantly stenosed refers to lesions that are severely diseased as defined
The OCTOBER (Optical Coherence Tomography by the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery Revascularization”
Optimized Bifurcation Event Reduction) trial showed as a visually estimated diameter stenosis severity of ≥70% for non–left main
disease and ≥50% for left main disease.16
a significant reduction in target vessel failure at 2
†Modified from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery Re-
years with OCT versus angiographic guidance in vascularization.”16
bifurcation lesions, including left main bifurcations.4
Randomized trials directly comparing OCT versus
Synopsis
IVUS have demonstrated that OCT is noninferior to
IVUS for PCI-guidance.6–8,10 However, the ILUMIEN Several randomized trials of hemodynamically stable pa-
IV: Optimal PCI (OCT Guided Coronary Stent tients with STEMI have demonstrated that a strategy of
Implantation Compared with Angiography) trial, the multivessel PCI of significantly stenosed nonculprit ves-
largest trial testing the strategy of imaging guidance sels is safe and reduces risk of MACE when compared
with OCT, did not reveal a difference in target vessel with PCI of the infarct-related artery alone.1–8 These trials
failure with OCT in high-risk patients or patients with enrolled a select group of patients with anatomy suitable
high-risk lesions; however, the coprimary endpoint of for PCI and without clinical factors precluding further in-
minimal stent area was significantly larger with OCT vasive therapies. Recent studies suggest a lower risk of
guidance compared with angiography guidance.2 MACE (predominantly driven by a lower rate of recur-
The rates of definite or probable stent thrombosis rent ischemia and recurrent MI) when multivessel stent-
e812 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 43 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
ing occurs as a single procedure as opposed to when 2. The trials examining the benefit of multivessel
staged.10–12 The decision to proceed with multivessel PCI in patients with STEMI and MVD excluded
stenting and the timing of the procedure should take into patients intended for CABG surgery. Furthermore,
account the patient’s clinical and hemodynamic status, few patients with complex disease, such as chronic
the duration and complexity of the infarct-related artery total occlusions or involvement of the left main
PCI, the complexity of disease in the noninfarct-related artery, were included in these trials. For this rea-
artery, the amount of myocardium in jeopardy, and the son, the benefits of a strategy of multivessel PCI
presence of comorbidities that might favor a conservative cannot be extrapolated to patients with more com-
approach to care. Few studies of multivessel PCI have plex noninfarct-related artery disease. In patients
directly compared the efficacy of a physiologic-guided with CCD and complex CAD, including complex
PCI versus an angiographic-guided PCI approach.17,18 A left main disease, or in patients with diabetes who
meta-analysis across trials did not suggest any differ- have MVD involving the left anterior descending
ential benefit for complete revascularization based on artery, CABG surgery is associated with improved
whether the approach was guided by fractional flow re- event-free survival when compared with PCI.20–24
serve (FFR) or angiography alone.3 As such, a similar benefit of CABG over PCI might
be expected for patients with STEMI and complex
non–infarct-related artery disease involving the left
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
main or left anterior descending artery or in patients
1. Over the past decade, numerous trials have reported with diabetes and MVD involving the left anterior
a significant reduction in MACE with complete revas- descending artery, who are stable and remote from
cularization.1,2,4–8 These studies have demonstrated their acute infarct, although the optimal timing of
benefits to complete revascularization either at the CABG is unclear in this setting and needs to take
time of PPCI2,5–8 or as a staged procedure.1,2,4,6 The into account increased bleeding risk from DAPT.
PRAMI (Preventive Angioplasty in Acute Myocardial 3. Performing multivessel PCI at the time of PPCI
Infarction) trial,8 one of the earliest trials of multi- offers the convenience of a single procedure,
vessel PCI, randomized 465 patients with STEMI allowing for faster recovery, without the risk of
and MVD to a strategy of complete revasculariza- repeated arterial access, or the potential for
tion versus culprit artery only revascularization. The recurrent ischemia before the staged PCI. The
trial was stopped early due to a significant reduction BIOVASC (Direct Complete Versus Staged
in the primary composite endpoint (cardiovascular Complete Revascularization in Patients Presenting
death, nonfatal MI, or refractory angina) with com- With Acute Coronary Syndromes and Multivessel
plete revascularization, with significant reductions Disease) trial10 randomized 1525 patients with
in nonfatal MI and refractory angina and a trend ACS (∼40% with STEMI) and MVD to a strategy
in reduction in the rates of cardiovascular death. of a single setting immediate multivessel PCI or
The COMPLETE (Complete versus Culprit-Only staged multivessel PCI. At 1 year, immediate mul-
Revascularization Strategies to Treat Multivessel tivessel PCI was noninferior to staged multives-
Disease after Early PCI for STEMI) trial1 randomized sel PCI for the primary endpoint all-cause death,
4041 patients with STEMI and significant MVD to MI, unplanned ischemia-driven revascularization,
a strategy of staged PCI of the non–infarct-related or cerebrovascular events. When compared with
artery (performed up to 45 days post MI) or culprit staged PCI, a single procedure multivessel PCI was
vessel–only revascularization with PCI reserved associated with lower rates of recurrent MI and
for patients with refractory symptoms. At a median lower rates of unplanned ischemia-driven revas-
follow-up of 3 years, multivessel PCI reduced car- cularization. The MULTISTARS AMI (Multivessel
diovascular death or MI and cardiovascular death, Immediate Versus Staged Revascularization in
MI, or ischemia-driven revascularization. This benefit Acute Myocardial Infarction) study11 compared a
was consistent across all subgroups. Angina-related strategy of a single procedure multivessel PCI with
QOL was also significantly improved with multives- staged multivessel PCI in 840 patients with STEMI
sel PCI, with a greater proportion of patients in the and MVD. Immediate multivessel PCI was nonin-
complete revascularization arm who were angina- ferior and superior to staged multivessel PCI for
free in long-term follow-up.9 In a meta-analysis, com- the primary endpoint of death, reinfarction, stroke,
plete revascularization reduced cardiovascular death unplanned ischemia-driven revascularization, or
in patients with STEMI.19 The benefits of complete hospitalization for HF at 1 year. This was largely
revascularization with multivessel PCI should not be driven by a lower rate of recurrent ischemia and
extrapolated to patients with disease more suited to recurrent infarction in the immediate group. In a
CABG surgery, because they were excluded from network meta-analysis comparing all strategies for
these trials. managing the non–infarct-related artery, a single
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e813
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 44 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
procedure approach for immediate multivessel NSTE-ACS. Identification of the culprit artery in these
PCI was preferred followed by staged multivessel situations might be challenging.13 Several subsets of pa-
PCI.12 Patients ideally suited for immediate com- tients, including those with complex left main disease,
plete revascularization include those with uncom- complex 3-vessel disease, and diabetes with left an-
plicated PCI of the infarct-related artery and low terior descending artery involvement, might be appro-
complexity noninfarct-related artery disease with priate for CABG surgery.12 A Heart Team approach is
stable hemodynamics, normal LV filling pressures, recommended to consider CABG surgery versus mul-
and normal renal function. tivessel PCI based on the complexity of CAD, techni-
4. In patients with STEMI complicated by cardiogenic cal feasibility, patient's surgical risk, and the potential
shock and MVD, a strategy of multivessel PCI is for rehabilitation after CABG surgery. Dedicated RCTs
associated with worse outcomes.13–15 The CULPRIT- comparing multivessel PCI versus culprit-only PCI ex-
SHOCK (Culprit Lesion Only PCI versus Multivessel clusively among hemodynamically stable patients with
PCI in Cardiogenic Shock) trial13 randomized 706 NSTE-ACS are lacking. A large subgroup analysis from
patients with AMI, approximately 60% with STEMI, an RCT that included both patients with STEMI and
and cardiogenic shock to a strategy of complete
NSTE-ACS and several observational studies have sug-
multivessel PCI or culprit vessel–only PCI. At 30
gested that multivessel PCI among selected patients not
days and 1 year, the rates of death or need for renal
intended for CABG reduces risk of MACE.1–4,6,15 Angio-
replacement therapy were significantly higher in the
graphic assessment might overestimate the severity of
group of patients randomized to multivessel PCI.13,14
a nonculprit lesion.16 In one study, routine integration of
Importantly, the CULPRIT-SHOCK trial only permitted
physiological assessment of a nonculprit artery stenosis
enrollment if there was an identifiable culprit lesion.
in NSTE-ACS led to change in management (ie, from
In situations where an unstable-appearing nonculprit
revascularization to medical treatment only) in 38% of
artery lesion was observed, or in those patients with
the cases.17
an uncertain culprit lesion, the decision to proceed
with multivessel PCI may be more nuanced.
7.4.2. Management of Multivessel CAD in Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
NSTE-ACS
1. Studies evaluating the benefit of multivessel
Recommendations for Management of Multivessel CAD in NSTE-ACS PCI among patients with NSTE-ACS and MVD
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized in excluded patients planned for CABG. The poten-
the Evidence Table.
tial benefit of multivessel PCI cannot be extrap-
COR LOE Recommendations olated to patients with complex CAD. Indeed,
1. In patients with NSTE-ACS with MVD, the mode certain subsets of patients might derive a survival
of revascularization (CABG or multivessel PCI)
1 C-EO benefit from CABG, including those with diabetes
should be based on the disease complexity and
patient’s comorbidities. and disease involving the left anterior descending
Multivessel CAD and Candidates for PCI artery, left main with high complexity, MVD with
complex or diffuse CAD, and those with severe
2. In stable patients with NSTE-ACS with MVD but
without left main stenosis who are not intended LV dysfunction (Table 16).18–21 Accordingly, a
for CABG surgery and undergoing culprit-lesion Heart Team approach is recommended to con-
1 B-R PCI, PCI of significant nonculprit lesions (at the
sider CABG surgery versus multivessel PCI
time of the index procedure or as a staged
procedure) is recommended to reduce the risk of based on the complexity of the CAD, technical
MACE.1–6
3. In patients with NSTE-ACS in whom multivessel
PCI is being considered, physiological Table 16. Considerations for Choice of Coronary Revascu-
2b B-R
assessment of a nonculprit stenosis may be larization Strategy for Patients With NSTE-ACS and MVD
considered to guide revascularization decisions.7–9
In patients with NSTE-ACS and MVD, CABG surgery may be preferred
4. In patients with NSTE-ACS complicated by
over multivessel PCI in any of the following situations:
cardiogenic shock, routine PCI of a nonculprit
3: Harm B-R artery at the time of index procedure should not Significant left main coronary stenosis with high-complexity CAD
be performed because of the higher risk of death
Multivessel CAD with complex or diffuse CAD
or kidney failure.*10,11
Diabetes mellitus and MVD with the involvement of the LAD
*Modified from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery Re-
vascularization.”12 Multivessel CAD or complex left main CAD with severe left ventricular
dysfunction
Synopsis Adapted from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Coronary Revascularization Guide-
line.”12
Multivessel coronary disease, defined as angiographi- CAD indicates coronary artery disease; CABG, coronary artery bypass graft-
ing; LAD, left anterior descending artery; MVD, multivessel disease; NSTE-ACS,
cally significant stenosis (≥50%) in ≥2 epicardial arter-
non–ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes; and PCI, percutaneous
ies, is present in up to 40% to 70% of patients with coronary intervention.
e814 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 45 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
feasibility, patient’s surgical risk, and the poten- Of note, the trial was prematurely terminated due
tial for rehabilitation after CABG surgery in these to slow recruitment and enrolled <50% of the
situations. In patients who are deemed appropri- planned 1292 patients.9 In the FAMOUS-NSTEMI
ate for CABG, surgery could be considered prior (Fractional Flow Reserve Versus Angiographically
to hospital discharge. Several observational stud- Guided Management to Optimise Outcomes in
ies have suggested that early CABG (performed Unstable Coronary Syndromes) trial, which ran-
within 3 days of presentation) may be associated domized 350 patients with NSTE-ACS and MVD
with similar outcomes compared with delayed to FFR-guided PCI (if FFR ≤0.80) or angiogra-
CABG.22–24 phy-guided PCI (diameter stenosis of >30%),
2. The FIRE (Functional Assessment in Elderly MI FFR-guided PCI reduced the number of revascu-
Patients With Multivessel Disease) trial enrolled larization procedures at 1 year.8
1445 elderly patients (median age, 80 years) 4. In patients with NSTE-ACS complicated by car-
with multivessel disease (ie, nonculprit artery with diogenic shock and MVD, multivessel PCI at the
minimum vessel diameter >2.5 mm and angiog- time of the index procedure is associated with
raphy estimated stenosis 50% to 99%) and ACS worse outcomes.10,11 The CULPRIT-SHOCK
(∼65% with NSTE-ACS). Multivessel PCI reduced (Culprit Lesion Only PCI versus Multivessel PCI in
the risk of MACE, as well as reduced all-cause Cardiogenic Shock) trial randomized 706 patients
and cardiovascular mortality. The benefit was con- with AMI and cardiogenic shock (approximately
sistent between patients with NSTE-ACS versus 40% with NSTE-ACS) to multivessel PCI at the
patients with STEMI.1 Several observational stud- time of the index procedure or culprit-only PCI.
ies and a meta-analysis of observational studies Multivessel PCI was associated with higher rates
demonstrated that multivessel PCI is associated of death or need for renal replacement therapy at
with a lower incidence of long-term MACE.2,3,6 30 days and at 1 year.10,11 Notably, the CULPRIT
Few RCTs have evaluated the optimal timing of SHOCK trial enrolled only patients with an iden-
a multivessel PCI approach. The SMILE (Single tifiable culprit lesion. When there is an unstable-
Staged Versus Multistaged PCI in Multivessel appearing nonculprit, or uncertain culprit, artery
NSTEMI Patients) trial enrolled 584 patients and lesion, the decision to proceed with multivessel
demonstrated that multivessel PCI conducted in PCI will be based on the anatomic and clinical
a single procedure reduces risk of MACE at 1 circumstances.
year driven by a lower risk of revascularization.4
The BIOVASC trial randomized 1525 patients
with ACS (∼60% with NSTE-ACS) and showed 8. CARDIOGENIC SHOCK MANAGEMENT
that multivessel PCI in a single procedure was
8.1. Revascularization in ACS With Cardiogenic
noninferior to staged PCI with respect to MACE
Shock at 1 year and without evidence of an interaction
between patients with NSTE-ACS versus patients
Recommendations for Revascularization in ACS With Cardiogenic
with STEMI.5,25 Shock
3. In a secondary analysis including 328 patients with Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized in
the Evidence Table.
NSTE-ACS and MVD from the FAME (Fractional
Flow Reserve Versus Angiography for Multivessel COR LOE Recommendations
Evaluation) trial that randomized patients to either 1. In patients with ACS and cardiogenic shock or
hemodynamic instability, emergency
angiography-guided PCI (if diameter stenosis
1 B-R revascularization of the culprit vessel by PCI or
≥50%) or FFR-guided PCI (if FFR ≤0.80), FFR- with CABG is indicated to improve survival,
guided PCI reduced the number of stents and the irrespective of time from symptom onset.1–4
incidence of MACE at 2 years.7 The FRAME-AMI 2. In patients with ACS complicated by cardiogenic
(Fractional Flow Reserve vs. Angiography-Guided shock, routine PCI of a noninfarct-related artery
3: Harm B-R at the time of PPCI should not be performed
Strategy for Management of Non-Infarction
because of the higher risk of death or renal
Related Artery Stenosis in Patients with Acute failure.*5–7
Myocardial Infarction) trial enrolled 562 patients
*Modified from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery
with ACS and MVD (∼53% with NSTE-ACS) Revascularization.”8
and were randomized to FFR-guided PCI (if FFR
≤0.80) or angiography-guided PCI (diameter ste-
Synopsis
nosis of >50%). FFR-guided PCI reduced the
number of stents and the risk of MACE at 3.5 In patients with STEMI and hemodynamic instability,
years with no evidence of interaction between treatment delays to PPCI are associated with worse
patients with NSTE-ACS and patients with STEMI. survival.1 In patients with cardiogenic shock, PCI of
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e815
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 46 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
the culprit vessel only is recommended.5,6 Emergency decision to proceed with multivessel PCI may be
CABG is recommended in those patients in whom PCI more nuanced.
is not feasible.2,9 Immediate revascularization with PCI
or CABG is also recommended in high-risk patients
8.2. MCS in Patients With ACS and Cardiogenic
with NSTEMI who are in cardiogenic shock.2–5 The use
of MCS devices in patients with cardiogenic shock is Shock
covered in Section 8.2, “MCS in Patients With ACS and
Recommendations for MCS in Patients With ACS and Cardiogenic
cardiogenic shock.”
Shock
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized
in the Evidence Table.
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
COR LOE Recommendations
1. In the SHOCK (Should We Emergently 1. In selected* patients with STEMI and severe or
Revascularize Occluded Coronaries for refractory cardiogenic shock, insertion of a
2a B-R
microaxial intravascular flow pump is reasonable
Cardiogenic Shock) trial,2 reported in 1999,
to reduce death.1
patients with AMI and cardiogenic shock were
2. In patients with mechanical complication of ACS,
randomized to medical therapy or emergency
short-term MCS devices are reasonable for
2a B-NR
revascularization. Among the patients randomized hemodynamic stabilization as a bridge to
to revascularization, 64% of patients were referred surgery.2–4
for PCI and 36% for CABG. The median time from 3. In patients with AMI and cardiogenic shock, the
routine use of intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) or
randomization to revascularization was 0.9 hours 3: No
B-R venoarterial extracorporeal membrane
for PCI and 2.7 hours for CABG. Despite lack of benefit oxygenation (VA-ECMO) is not recommended
a significant difference in the primary endpoint of due to a lack of survival benefit.5–9
mortality at 30 days, emergency revascularization
*See supportive text.
with either PCI or CABG reduced the mortality
rate at 6 months,2 and the mortality benefit was
Synopsis
maintained through 1 and 6 years.10,11 In an obser-
vational analysis from the FITT-STEMI (Feedback Cardiogenic shock is estimated to occur in approximately
Intervention and Treatment Times in ST-Elevation 10% of patients with STEMI and is associated with an
Myocardial Infarction) trial, for every 10-minute early mortality rate of 40% to 50%.10,11 Several types of
delay in PPCI after 60 minutes from FMC, there devices for temporary MCS are available and have been
were an additional 3 to 4 deaths per 100 with a studied in patients with cardiogenic shock with variable
>80% mortality rate beyond 6 hours of delay from efficacy and increased risk of vascular complications.
FMC.1 Therefore, it is recommended that PPCI IABP counterpulsation improves coronary perfusion and
should be performed in patients with STEMI and reduces cardiac afterload. It is relatively easy to use and
cardiogenic shock as soon as possible, ideally has a smaller insertion profile, which is associated with
within 90 minutes, to reduce the mortality rate.1,2 lower rates of vascular access site complications when
Observational studies suggest that emergency compared with other MCS devices.12,13 Percutaneous mi-
CABG remains a treatment option in patients croaxial flow pumps unload the LV by draining blood from
with cardiogenic shock who are not amenable the LV and pumping it to the ascending aorta. They are
to primary reperfusion with PCI3,4 or when PCI is dependent on adequate right ventricular function to fill the
unsuccessful.4,12 LV and require adequate oxygenation of blood. VA-ECMO
2. In patients with STEMI complicated by cardio- provides both blood flow and oxygenation but increases
genic shock and MVD, a strategy of multivessel afterload. Randomized trials of MCS devices remain chal-
PCI is associated with worse outcomes.5–7 The lenging to conduct due to relative lack of equipoise on the
CULPRIT-SHOCK trial5 randomized 706 patients part of treating physicians, leading to selective patient en-
with AMI (approximately 60% with STEMI) and rollment and limiting the generalizability of study results.
cardiogenic shock to a strategy of complete Although small studies of microaxial flow pumps did not
multivessel PCI or culprit-only PCI. At 30 days demonstrate clinical benefit for patients with AMI and
and 1 year, the rates of death or need for renal cardiogenic shock,14–16 a randomized trial at specialized
replacement therapy were significantly higher in centers in Europe demonstrated a mortality benefit with
the group of patients randomized to multivessel use of the microaxial flow pump in selected patients, albeit
PCI.5,6 Importantly, the CULPRIT SHOCK trial with increased risk of complications, including limb isch-
permitted enrollment only if there was an iden- emia and renal replacement therapy.1 Best practices for
tifiable culprit lesion. In situations where there is insertion of all MCS devices, including the multimodality
an unstable appearing nonculprit artery lesion, use of fluoroscopy and ultrasound, should be utilized when
or in those patients with an uncertain culprit, the feasible for obtaining femoral access.17–19
e816 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 47 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text (77.5% of whom were on VA-ECMO), the low-
est in-hospital mortality was observed in those
1. The DanGer-SHOCK (Danish-German Cardiogenic treated with VA-ECMO (29.2%) when compared
Shock) trial enrolled patients with STEMI and with those treated with an IABP alone (52.0%).
cardiogenic shock of <24 hours duration, defined However, 2 database analyses that were not
as hypotension (SBP <100 mm Hg or vasopres- included in the systematic review demonstrated
sor support), end-organ hypoperfusion (arterial higher in-hospital death with use of VA-ECMO
lactate ≥2.5 mmol/L and/or SvO <55% with in patients with post-AMI mechanical complica-
2
a normal PaO ), and LVEF <45%. Patients who tions.3,4 Evaluation of the ECLS (Extracorporeal
2
were comatose (Glasgow Coma Scale score <8) Life Support) Organizations Registry yielded 158
after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest and patients patients with post-AMI mechanical complications
with overt right ventricular failure were excluded.1 who underwent VA-ECMO.3 Survival to hospital
The study enrolled 360 patients at 14 specialized discharge here was low at 37.3%, and complica-
centers in Europe and randomized them to use of tions related to VA-ECMO use occurred in 75.3%
a microaxial flow pump or standard of care. Use of patients. Evaluation of the National Inpatient
of a microaxial flow pump significantly reduced Sample yielded 10 726 patients with post-
the risk of all-cause mortality at 180 days by STEMI mechanical complications, and the use
26% (HR, 0.74 [95% CI, 0.55-0.99]; P =0.04; of VA-ECMO was associated with increased in-
absolute risk reduction, 12.7%; number needed hospital mortality (OR, 2.80 [95% CI, 1.92-4.04]),
to treat =8) compared with standard of care. The while the use of an IABP was not associated with
absolute risk reduction seen in this trial is similar lower mortality.4 Both data sources included use
to the absolute risk reduction in 6-month mortal- of VA-ECMO at any time during the hospitalization
ity observed with emergency revascularization in for post-AMI mechanical complications, including
patients with AMI and LV failure in the SHOCK use of VA-ECMO postsurgery, a cohort at highest
(Should We Emergently Revascularize Occluded risk of in-hospital mortality.
Coronaries for Cardiogenic Shock) trial.1,20 3. The IABP-SHOCK II (Intraaortic Balloon Pump
However, given the increased risks of serious in Cardiogenic Shock II) trial randomized patients
complications like bleeding, limb ischemia, and with AMI and severe or refractory cardiogenic
renal replacement therapy with the microaxial shock in whom early revascularization was planned
flow pump seen in the DanGer Shock trial, the to IABP or no IABP.5 At 30 days and long-term
COR is based on the balance between these follow-up, no differences were observed in the pri-
risks and the reduction in death. Additionally, the mary outcome of all-cause death or the secondary
timing of microaxial flow pump placement was biomarker or measures of disease severity end-
not dictated by the trial protocol; thus, the pre- points.6,7 VA-ECMO has not been shown to reduce
ferred timing of placement is unclear. Based on death compared with medical therapy alone in
these results, use of a microaxial flow pump is patients with cardiogenic shock in the setting
reasonable to reduce mortality in patients with of MI but increases major bleeding and vascular
STEMI and cardiogenic shock who have clinical complications.21 The ECMO-CS (Extracorporeal
features consistent with the inclusion criteria of Membrane Oxygenation in the Therapy of
the DanGer-SHOCK trial. In particular, patients Cardiogenic Shock) trial randomized patients
with STEMI who present with SCAI shock stages with rapidly deteriorating or severe cardiogenic
C, D, or E, who are noncomatose and have ade- shock to immediate or no immediate VA-ECMO.8
quate peripheral vasculature to accommodate At 30 days, no differences were observed in the
large-bore access are reasonable candidates for primary composite endpoint of all-cause death,
the microaxial flow pump. resuscitated cardiac arrest, and implementation of
2. Although randomized trial data are lacking, MCS another MCS device with results consistent in the
devices can be considered as a bridge to surgery 74 patients with cardiogenic shock related to MI
for patients with mechanical complications of AMI and in the as-treated analysis. The ECLS-SHOCK
when adequate clinical stabilization is required (Extracorporeal Life Support in Infarct-Related
and may allow for further tissue stabilization at Cardiogenic Shock) trial randomized patients with
the injured site. A systemic review of patients AMI and severe or refractory cardiogenic shock in
treated with MCS as a bridge to surgical treatment whom early revascularization was planned to early
of ventricular septal rupture yielded 111 studies ECLS or no ECLS.9 No differences were observed
(n=2440) with almost all patients receiving ini- in the primary outcome of the 30-day mortality
tial IABP support (n=2263).2 Of the 129 patients rate or secondary outcomes. Moderate or severe
who underwent additional MCS device placement bleeding and peripheral vascular complications
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e817
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 48 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
requiring intervention were higher in the ECLS ventricular assist device as a primary or bailout treat-
versus no ECLS group. Overall, these studies do ment strategy to improve survival.18
not support routine use of IABP and VA-ECMO in
patients with AMI and cardiogenic shock.
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
1. No RCTs evaluate the role of transfer of patients
with mechanical complications after MI to dedi-
9. ACS COMPLICATIONS
cated centers with cardiac surgical expertise.
9.1. Mechanical Complications Although overall surgical mortality is approxi-
mately 40%, it remains the treatment strategy of
Recommendations for Mechanical Complications choice. Hemodynamic deterioration is unpredict-
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized in
able and can be precipitous in previously stable
the Evidence Table.
subjects. Consequently, transfer to a Level 1
COR LOE Recommendations
cardiac intensive care unit (CICU)19 with access
1. Patients with a mechanical complication of
to various temporary MCS devices and multidis-
1 C-EO ACS should be managed in a facility with
cardiac surgical expertise. ciplinary experienced teams of surgical, inter-
ventional, HF, and palliative care specialists is
2. In patients with a mechanical complication of
ACS, short-term MCS devices are reasonable recommended. Emerging data following the cre-
2a B-NR
for hemodynamic stabilization as a bridge to ation of shock teams supports the transfer of
surgery.1–3
hemodynamically unstable patients from com-
munity hospitals to centers with multidisciplinary
expertise.20,21 Although the exact timing remains
Synopsis
uncertain, early corrective surgery is the treat-
Timely reperfusion therapy has reduced the incidence ment of choice for mechanical complications of
of mechanical complications (ventricular septal rup- MI.8,9,13 The risk of surgical correction is highest
ture, mitral valve insufficiency due to papillary muscle when performed in the setting of cardiogenic
infarction or rupture, or free wall rupture) after AMI shock10,22,23 and appears lower when surgery is
(Figure 9).3,5 Although occasionally found incidentally, delayed. The early hazard with surgery is attrib-
mechanical complications commonly present with re- uted to patient acuity, end-organ injury, and lack
current or refractory chest pain or a new murmur ac- of tissue integrity to promote definitive and last-
companied by disproportionate HF, cardiogenic shock, ing repair. Selected subjects may be candidates
or sudden cardiac death on clinical presentation with- for either definitive or temporizing percutaneous
in the first week after an AMI. Medical therapy alone structural intervention as a bridge to definitive
is associated with high risk of early death6,7; defini- surgical intervention.16,17,24 Given the complexity of
tive surgical correction is frequently the treatment of decision making, a Heart Team approach to guide
choice.8,9 Mortality rates with surgery are highest in feasibility, timing, and nature of corrective inter-
subjects with cardiogenic shock and in those requir- vention as well as the need and selection of MCS
ing early emergency/urgent intervention after AMI.10,11 support is recommended as soon as a mechanical
Observed mortality rates following delayed surgery complication is diagnosed.
(>7 days) are lower but patient selection and survivor 2. No RCTs have evaluated the role of MCS in improv-
bias contribute to this observation.12,13 The availabil- ing clinical outcomes in the setting of mechanical
ity of temporary MCS devices has led to increasing complications. The choice of specific MCS should
trends for delayed surgery due to concerns for the ini- be individualized and guided by patient characteris-
tial degree of extensive tissue destruction.14,15 Delayed tics, nature of the mechanical complication, and the
surgical intervention may enable hemodynamic stabi- hemodynamic profile. In patients with ventricular
lization, lead to recovery of end-organ injury, and pro- septal rupture, the use of an IABP has been shown
mote infarct tissue healing and maturation that could to reduce left-to-right shunting and improve hemo-
facilitate definitive repair. Percutaneous approaches dynamics in patients with and without shock.25
toward repair have been used in patients with prohibi- Favorable hemodynamic effects with IABP are
tive surgical risk or contraindications to surgery as a also noted with acute ischemic mitral regurgitation.
primary or temporizing option in the setting of acute Various devices have been utilized when IABP fails
mitral regurgitation and ventricular septal rupture and or if hemodynamic instability remains profound.1
remain an evolving area of investigation.16,17 Select pa- The use of MCS devices has enhanced hemody-
tients with mechanical complications of ACS may be namic stabilization to allow the opportunity for con-
considered for cardiac transplantation or durable left sideration of delayed corrective strategy.14,15
e818 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 49 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Figure 9. Clinical Characteristics of Mechanical Complications of Acute Myocardial Infarction.
Contained rupture is the preferred term for an entity sometimes referred to as pseudoaneurysm. HF indicates heart failure; LA, left atrium; LV, left
ventricle; and MR, mitral regurgitation. Modified with permission from Damluji et al.26 Copyright 2025 Devon Medical Art.
9.2. Electrical Complications and Prevention of Synopsis
Sudden Cardiac Death After ACS
Electrical complications in patients with ACS may cre-
ate challenges in clinical management due to consider-
Recommendations for Electrical Complications and Prevention of
ation for the need of anticoagulant therapy in patients
Sudden Cardiac Death After ACS
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized in who develop atrial fibrillation (AF) or flutter and possible
the Evidence Table. need for antiarrhythmic therapy and electrophysiologic
COR LOE Recommendations interventions. Many of these considerations have been
Ventricular Arrhythmias addressed in depth in separate guideline documents.10
1. In patients post MI, implantable cardioverter- Generally, arrhythmic complications increase both mor-
defibrillator (ICD) implantation is recommended bidity and mortality rates in patients after ACS. Patients
1 A in selected patients with an LVEF ≤40% (Table who present with AMI with reduced LVEF (≤40%) have
17) at least 40 days post MI and at least 90 days
postrevascularization to reduce death.*1–4 increased risk of new-onset AF, bradyarrhythmias, and
ventricular arrhythmias.11,12 This risk appears to be in-
2. In patients post ACS, ICD implantation is
reasonable in patients with clinically relevant creased in those patients who are not revascularized or
2a C-EO
ventricular arrhythmias >48 hours and within receive fibrinolytic therapy compared with those who un-
40 days post MI to improve survival.*5,6
dergo PCI.11
3. In patients early after MI, usefulness of a
temporary wearable cardioverter-defibrillator
2b B-R
is uncertain in patients with an LVEF ≤35% to
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
improve survival.7
Bradyarrhythmias 1. Ventricular arrhythmias are common after ACS
4. In patients presenting with an AMI with sustained and more common in patients with reduced LVEF.
evidence of second-degree Mobitz type II MADIT II (Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator
atrioventricular block, high-grade atrioventricu-
1 B-NR Implantation Trial) demonstrated a 31% reduction
lar block, alternating bundle-branch block, or
third-degree atrioventricular block (persistent or in all-cause mortality (HR, 0.69 [95% CI, 0.51-
infranodal), permanent pacing is indicated.†8,9 0.93]) for prophylactic implantation of a cardiac
*Adapted from the “2017 AHA/ACC/HRS Guideline for Management of defibrillator in patients with an LVEF ≤30% who
Patients With Ventricular Arrhythmias and the Prevention of Sudden Cardiac were at least 30 days after MI or 3 months after
Death.”
revascularization for MI and had an anticipated life
†Adapted from the “2018 ACC/AHA/HRS Guideline on the Evaluation and
Management of Patients With Bradycardia and Cardiac Conduction Delay.” expectancy longer than 1 year.2 A mortality benefit
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e819
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 50 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Table 17. LVEF and Patient Characteristics Defining an no evidence was observed to definitively demon-
Indication for Prophylactic ICD Implantation for Primary strate the safety of this approach.10,20
Prevention in Ischemic Heart Disease
3. In the VEST (Vest Prevention of Early Sudden
Patient Category: All Patients Should Death) trial, the routine use of a temporary wear-
LVEF Have Expected Survival of ≥1 y able cardioverter-defibrillator did not significantly
≤30% NYHA class I, II, or III2 reduce the primary endpoint (composite of sudden
31%-35% NYHA class II or III1,3 death or death from ventricular tachyarrhythmias
≤40% Inducible VT1,4,13 at 90 days) in patients with AMI and LVEF ≤35%
(relative risk, 0.67 [95% CI, 0.37-1.21]).7,21 The
ICD indicates implantable cardioverter-defibrillator; LVEF, left ventricular ejection
secondary endpoint of death from any cause was
fraction; NYHA, New York Heart Association; and VT, ventricular tachycardia.
lower in the wearable vest group compared with
the no-device group (relative risk, 0.64 [95% CI,
for prophylactic ICD implantation has also been
0.43-0.98]); only 12 of 48 patients were wearing
shown in patients with an LVEF ≤35% and New
the device at the time of death.7 Greater benefit
York Heart Association class II or III HF symp-
was demonstrated in those who were compliant
toms,1,3 as well as in patients with inducible ven-
with the device.21 As such, use of a wearable car-
tricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation and an
dioverter-defibrillator could be considered in high-
LVEF ≤40%1,4,13 (Table 17).
risk patients with reduced LVEF as a bridge to
2. The risk of ventricular arrythmias and sudden car-
consideration for the need for an ICD.
diac death is highest early after MI, although the
4. Patients with STEMI with second- or third-degree
routine implantation of a defibrillator (for primary
atrioventricular block have higher in-hospital mor-
prevention) in patients with LV dysfunction early
tality than those without high-degree atrioven-
after MI or CABG has not been associated with
tricular block.22,23 Patients who present with ACS
improved survival.14–16 In DINAMIT (Defibrillator in
with complete heart block have a higher incidence
Acute Myocardial Infarction Trial), ICD implanta-
of cardiogenic shock, ventricular arrhythmia, and
tion led to a 58% reduction in arrhythmic deaths
death.24,25 In a contemporary cohort of patients
within 6 to 40 days post MI with ejection fraction
with AMI, the incidence of high-degree atrioven-
≤35%; however, this was offset by an increase in
tricular block has decreased from 4.2% to 2.1%;
nonarrhythmic deaths.16 Sustained episodes of
however, increased morbidity and mortality remain
ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation
despite reperfusion therapy in those with high-
occurring >48 hours after reperfusion are asso-
degree atrioventricular block.26,27 A pooled analysis
ciated with an increased risk of death,12,17 and of 30 000 patients found that high-degree atrio-
the risk of sudden cardiac death is highest in the
ventricular block, asystole, and electromechani-
first month.5 Patients with ventricular arrhythmias
cal dissociation are infrequent complications of
should first be managed with beta blockers and/or NSTEMI but are associated with increased short-
antiarrhythmic therapy. The benefit of ICD implan- term mortality. High-degree atrioventricular block is
tation in patients with persistent or sustained ven-
not considered to be responsible for the increased
tricular arrhythmias and who are <40 days post
mortality but is a surrogate marker of larger infarct
MI remains unclear.15,16,18 A single-center observa-
size.28 Temporary pacemaker insertion in the set-
tional study enrolled patients post STEMI (median,
ting of ACS in patients with high-degree atrio-
9 days) and referred those with an LVEF ≤40% for
ventricular block and other pacer indications has
electrophysiologic testing and implanted an ICD
been found to improve postdischarge survival.8,9,29
only in those with inducible ventricular tachycar-
Permanent pacemaker insertion is recommended
dia. Although a randomized comparator arm was
with unresolved high-degree atrioventricular block
unavailable, 22% of those who underwent ICD
that persists >72 hours.20
implantation had ventricular tachycardia termi-
nated by the device during the first 12 months.6
The effects of ICD implantation on mortality can-
9.3. Pericarditis Management After MI
not be definitely ascertained, and more research is
Synopsis
required. Radiofrequency catheter ablation should
be considered in patients with recurrent ventricu- The diagnostic criteria for post-MI pericarditis are dis-
lar tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation followed by played in Table 18. Pericarditis that occurs early after MI
ICD implantation.19 Earlier ICD implantation can be typically arises 1 to 3 days after a transmural event and
considered in patients who have an indication for a is presumed to be inflammatory in nature due to adjacent
permanent pacemaker prior to hospital discharge myocardial necrosis. These cases of early pericarditis are
and in whom LVEF is not expected to recover, but typically transient, lasting several days, and will resolve
e820 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 51 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Table 18. Clinical Criteria for Diagnosis of Pericarditis management of LV thrombus, and current management is
based mostly on retrospective and observational data and
Diagnosis Is Made With Presence of Pleuritic Chest Pain and ≥1 of the
Following Criteria: expert consensus. Patients at highest risk for LV thrombus
include those with anterior STEMI involving the left anterior Friction pericardial rub on auscultation
descending artery, LVEF <30% (especially in the presence
Electrocardiographic evidence such as classic PR-segment depression or
diffusive concave ST-segment elevations, or in the setting of MI, persistent of an LV aneurysm), and longer times to reperfusion. An
ST-segment elevations or dynamic T-wave changes echocardiogram is the recommended imaging modality for
New or growing pericardial effusion on echocardiography diagnosis, given its wide accessibility and low cost.4 Cardi-
ac MRI is more sensitive for detection of LV thrombus and
MI indicates myocardial infarction.
may be considered when there is high clinical suspicion and
echocardiogram results are inconclusive. LV thrombus may
with conservative therapy. Acetaminophen can be given
form later during hospitalization or after discharge; there-
for symptomatic relief. A second form of pericarditis may
fore, repeat imaging can sometimes detect LV thrombus
occur weeks after MI (Dressler’s syndrome) and is be-
in high-risk patients.5 Because DAPT is recommended for
lieved to be immune-mediated as a response to pericar-
most patients early after ACS, the addition of an anticoagu-
dial irritation or damage, such as in the setting of any
lant for LV thrombus needs to be considered in the context
degree of hemopericardium.1,2 These cases of late peri-
of the patient’s overall bleeding risk versus their risk of an
carditis often require additional therapy (Table 19). Given
embolic event. Most patients with LV thrombus will war-
the rarity of post-MI pericarditis (0.1%-0.5%) in the era
rant anticoagulation for a period of 3 months, at which time
of early coronary reperfusion therapy,3 dedicated RCTs of
the presence of residual thrombus can be assessed by re-
high-dose aspirin are lacking, and data are extrapolated
peat imaging to help determine whether a more prolonged
from studies of the heterogeneous diagnosis of acute
course is warranted.1 Although direct oral anticoagulants
pericarditis.4 Furthermore, RCTs of colchicine were per-
(DOAC) are routinely used in clinical practice, there are lim-
formed on a background of high-dose aspirin therapy.5–7
ited data comparing the efficacy of a DOAC versus vitamin
If symptoms persist despite standard supportive therapy
K antagonist in the setting of LV thrombus. Observational
in early pericarditis and in any late pericarditis, high-dose
studies and small RCTs have suggested that DOAC may
aspirin may be used to reduce symptoms.4 The use of
be noninferior to vitamin K antagonist with respect to mor-
colchicine should also be considered to reduce symp-
tality, stroke, or LV thrombus resolution, and DOACs may
toms and decrease risk of recurrence8,9; suggested dos-
offer an improved bleeding profile.6 The practical manage-
ing is summarized in Table 19. The value of a loading
ment of LV thrombi is more completely addressed in other
dose of colchicine in this setting is unclear. Routine use
documents.1,6
of high-dose aspirin or colchicine is not indicated for the
management of asymptomatic pericardial effusions.10,11
Glucocorticoids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
10. IN-HOSPITAL ISSUES IN THE
drugs (other than aspirin) are potentially harmful due to
MANAGEMENT OF ACS
possible increase in risk of recurrent MI or impaired myo-
cardial healing and risk of rupture.12,13 10.1. Cardiac Intensive Care Unit
9.4. Management of LV Thrombus After MI Recommendation for CICU
Synopsis COR LOE Recommendation
1. Patients with ACS and with ongoing angina, hemo-
LV thrombus typically occurs in the setting of large anterior
dynamic instability, uncontrolled arrhythmias, sub-
STEMI and can lead to thromboembolic complications, in- 1 C-EO optimal reperfusion, or cardiogenic shock should
cluding stroke and systemic embolization. In the era of PCI, be admitted to a CICU to reduce cardiovascular
events.
the incidence of LV thrombus after ACS has decreased
and is estimated to be <5% to 10% in the post-MI popula-
tion.1–3 Limited RCT data are available on the contemporary
Synopsis
The nurse-to-patient ratio in the CICU should be suf-
Table 19. Additional Therapy for Persistent/Late Pericarditis ficient to provide (1) continuous electrocardiographic
Symptoms
rhythm monitoring, (2) frequent assessment of vital signs
Medical Therapy Dosing Schedule and mental status, and (3) ability to perform rapid cardio-
High-dose aspirin 500-1000 mg every 6-8 h until symptoms improve version and defibrillation for arrhythmias.1,2 Some hospi-
tals may not have a dedicated CICU but rather care for
Colchicine 0.5-0.6 mg once* or twice daily for 3 mo
patients with MI within a general multipurpose ICU; this
*Daily dosing should be used in patients who weigh <70 kg and further ad-
approach requires trained providers with sufficient exper-
justed in patients with stage 4-5 kidney disease, severe hepatic impairment, or
with concomitant P-glycoprotein and/or moderate and severe CYP3A4 inhibitors. tise in the care of cardiac patients.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e821
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 52 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text However, randomized trial evidence for populations with
ACS suggests possible clinical benefit for a more liberal
1. Admission to the CICU and optimal length of
transfusion strategy targeting a hemoglobin level above
stay in the CICU after an MI should be based
10 g/dL compared with targeting a hemoglobin level
on patients’ risk profile and clinical stability, while
above 7 g/dL to 8 g/dL.1,12,13
considering the patient’s baseline cardiac risk and
comorbidities. Patients with ACS with continuing/
ongoing angina, hemodynamic instability, uncon- Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
trolled arrhythmias, or a large MI with HF, car-
1. The MINT (Myocardial Ischemia and Transfusion)
diogenic shock, or both, should be admitted to a
trial randomly assigned 3504 patients with acute
CICU.1,2 Patients with ongoing ischemic symptoms
STEMI or NSTEMI and anemia with a blood hemo-
should be preferentially triaged for cardiac cath-
globin level of <10 g/dL (13% with recent bleed-
eterization whenever possible. Stable patients with
ing) to a restrictive transfusion strategy (transfusing
ACS and without recurrent ischemia, significant
if the hemoglobin level was <7-8 g/dL) or a liberal
arrhythmias, pulmonary edema, or hemodynamic
transfusion strategy (transfusing if the hemoglobin
instability do not need CICU admission and can
level was <10 g/dL).1 Patients were ineligible for
be admitted to an intermediate care or telemetry
enrollment if they had uncontrolled bleeding, were
unit. Clinical predictors may be useful for helping
receiving palliative treatment, or were scheduled to
identify patients who will require CICU care. For
have cardiac surgery. Transfusion could be delayed
example, the ACTION ICU risk score for CICU
for patients with volume overload or until day of
admission integrates 9 variables on presentation to
dialysis in patients with end-stage renal disease.
the ED including: signs or symptoms of HF, initial
The primary outcome of 30-day death or recurrent
heart rate, initial SBP, initial troponin, initial serum
MI occurred in 16.9% of patients in the restric-
creatinine, prior revascularization, chronic lung dis-
tive strategy and 14.5% of patients in the liberal
ease, ST-segment depression, and age >70 years.3
strategy (relative risk, 1.15 [95% CI, 0.99-1.34];
P =0.07). Death occurred in 9.9% of patients in
10.2. Management of Anemia in ACS
the restrictive strategy and 8.3% of patients in
the liberal strategy (relative risk, 1.19 [95% CI,
Recommendation for Management of Anemia in ACS
0.94-1.49]), and cardiac death occurred in 5.5%
Referenced studies that support recommendation are summarized in
the Evidence Table. of patients in the restrictive strategy and 3.2% of
COR LOE Recommendation patients in the liberal strategy (relative risk, 1.74
[95% CI, 1.26-2.40]). Although the MINT trial did
1. In patients with ACS and acute or chronic anemia,
blood transfusion to achieve a hemoglobin level not demonstrate a statistically significant reduc-
2b B-R
≥10 g/dL may be reasonable to reduce tion in its primary endpoint, the results suggest
cardiovascular events.1 that a liberal blood transfusion strategy targeting
a hemoglobin level around 10 g/dL may provide
Synopsis short-term clinical benefit over a restrictive transfu-
sion strategy targeting a hemoglobin level above 7
Anemia is common in patients with ACS and is asso-
g/dL or 8 g/dL in patients with AMI and anemia.
ciated with worse short- and long-term outcomes.2–4
Anemia is associated with adverse outcomes irrespec-
tive of whether the anemia is chronic and due to co- 10.3. Telemetry and Length of Stay
morbid conditions, or acute and the result of bleeding
related to antithrombotic therapy and/or invasive pro- Recommendation for Telemetry and Length of Stay
cedures. The adverse effects of anemia may be due to COR LOE Recommendation
decreased myocardial oxygen delivery, increased myo- 1. In patients with ACS, telemetry monitoring is
cardial oxygen demand due to increased cardiac output, 1 C-LD recommended to reduce cardiovascular events
with duration determined by cardiac risk.1,2
or the avoidance of potentially beneficial antithrombotic
drugs and/or procedures. In observational studies, blood
transfusion has been associated with worse clinical out-
Synopsis
comes.5–8 Randomized trials in medically ill patients and
those undergoing cardiac surgery have demonstrated Advances in vascular access methods, coronary revas-
similar or better outcomes with a restrictive transfusion cularization, and concomitant medical therapies have
strategy (targeting a blood hemoglobin level around contributed to shortening length of stay and further
8 g/dL) than with a liberal transfusion strategy facilitated changes in discharge patterns after PCI in
(targeting a blood hemoglobin level around 10 g/dL).9–11 the setting of ACS. There remains limited evidence
e822 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 53 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
regarding the optimal length of stay after MI. Patients Synopsis
with STEMI represent a higher risk cohort who may
In patients with ACS, LV function should be routinely
require longer length of stay. Available data suggest
evaluated in patients prior to hospital discharge to help
that an early discharge strategy of <3 days from ad-
guide therapy and for risk stratification.1–3 Transthoracic
mission is not associated with increased mortality for
echocardiography is generally the preferred modality be-
low-risk patients after STEMI who have undergone
cause it is noninvasive and can provide a comprehensive
PCI.3–8 The Zwolle score has been recommended as
assessment of ventricular and valvular function, as well as
a clinical tool to help identify patients after PPCI in
possibly detect LV thrombus or mechanical complications.
STEMI at low risk of death (low-risk patients, score
Transthoracic echocardiography is therefore strongly pre-
≤3) who can potentially be discharged earlier from the
ferred for all patients hospitalized with STEMI because
hospital (48 to 72 hours). Predictors of mortality in the
complications may be more likely to be present. In pa-
Zwolle score include age, Killip class, postprocedural
tients where transthoracic echocardiography is nondiag-
TIMI Flow Grade, 3-vessel disease, anterior infarction,
nostic, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging is a reason-
and ischemic time.3 Optimal length of stay in the set-
able alternative in clinically stable patients. Alternatively,
ting of NSTE-ACS has been less rigorously studied.
LV function and some mechanical complications can be
Small retrospective studies have suggested safety of
assessed invasively with left ventriculography in the car-
very early or same-day discharge after PCI for patients
diac catheterization laboratory, but other data regarding
with ACS, with most (71%) of same-day discharge
valvular function and wall motion are best evaluated with
being troponin-negative.9 Patients being considered
noninvasive methods like transthoracic echocardiography
for early discharge should be clinically stable without
or cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. LV function may
evidence of ongoing ischemia, acute kidney injury, LV
also be estimated noninvasively by myocardial perfusion
dysfunction, HF, and procedural complications and with
imaging testing, but this will also provide incomplete in-
adequate postdischarge support.8 Hospitals and care
formation regarding the presence or absence of other
providers should ensure that patients have access to
complications of MI. For patients in whom LV function is
postdischarge prescription medications and adequate
found to be reduced, a repeat echocardiogram should be
follow-up.
performed in 6 to 12 weeks to further guide treatment
decisions and for consideration of need for an ICD.4,5
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
1. The number of studies addressing telemetry dura- Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
tion are few and the focus has been on arrhythmia
1. LV function should be routinely evaluated in
monitoring, not continuous ST-segment moni-
patients with ACS prior to hospital discharge
toring. Continuous ST-segment monitoring can
because LVEF guides therapeutic interventions
be considered for higher-risk patients, including
and facilitates risk stratification. The diagnosis of
those with suspected ischemia who are not yet
LV dysfunction is important because it may trig-
revascularized.1,10–14 Patients with ACS who are
ger consideration for the initiation or optimization
at low risk for cardiac arrhythmias require rhythm
of guideline-directed therapeutic interventions for
monitoring for ≤24 hours or until coronary revas-
patients with HF or depressed LV function. It also
cularization (whichever comes first) in a telemetry
helps identify patients with reduced LVEF who may
unit, while individuals at intermediate to high risk
require consideration for future primary prevention
for cardiac arrhythmia may require rhythm moni-
implantation of an ICD. Besides LVEF, transtho-
toring for >24 hours in a telemetry unit or in an
racic echocardiography facilitates the assessment
intermediate care unit, depending on the clini-
of regional wall motion abnormalities, valvular func-
cal presentation, degree of revascularization, and
tion, mechanical complications,4 and LV thrombus.5
early postrevascularization course with input from
In cases in which LV function cannot be adequately
the treating cardiologist.10,12–14
assessed despite the use of contrast echocardiog-
raphy, cardiac magnetic resonance is the preferred
10.4. Noninvasive Diagnostic Testing Prior to imaging modality for clinically stable patients.6–9
Hospital Discharge
10.5. Discharge Planning
Recommendation for Noninvasive Diagnostic Testing Prior to Hospital
Discharge 10.5.1. Patient Education
COR LOE Recommendation
Synopsis
1. In patients with ACS, an assessment of LVEF is
1 C-LD recommended prior to hospital discharge to guide Patient education is universally valued and aims to de-
therapy and for risk stratification.1–3 liver information from clinicians to patients to improve
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e823
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 54 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
health behavior and long-term health-related outcomes. ethnic groups, and patients who require ICU services
Clinicians are well positioned to engage in meaningful during their index hospitalization are particularly at risk
dialogue with patients who have experienced an ACS for readmission.3 Quality improvement programs such as
event about secondary prevention and building self-care the Hospital to Home Initiative7 or the AMI Toolkit8 pro-
skills to manage their condition (Table 20). Recovery vide resources to assist clinicians decrease readmission
represents a teachable moment to provide structured rates and improve medication and CR adherence through
education, including priming the patient to attend car- increased provider communication and care coordina-
diac rehabilitation (CR). Systematic reviews of educa- tion. Transitional care interventions that leverage different
tional interventions targeting secondary prevention in types of support (eg, hospital-initiated support, patient and
patients with coronary heart disease, many of whom family education delivered before and after discharge, or
have ACS, have demonstrated effectiveness in improv- community-based or chronic disease management mod-
ing disease-related knowledge, healthy behaviors (eg, els of care) are examples of ways to reduce risk of re-
smoking cessation, physical activity, healthy dietary be- admission.9 Hospital-initiated support interventions are
havior), and medication adherence.1–3 The magnitude of associated with reduced mortality rates at 3 months and
the effect on each of these outcomes varies by study. 1 year as well as a reduction in 30-day readmission rates
Beyond improved knowledge and behavior change, the among patients with AMI.9,10 Multicomponent integrated
impact of individualized education for patients with ACS care (≥2 quality improvement strategies targeting different
on morbidity and mortality is less clear. A shortcoming of domains of the health care system, health care profession-
published educational intervention studies to date is that als, or patients) as compared with usual care has been as-
the interventions are markedly heterogeneous but vary in sociated with reduction of all-cause death, cardiovascular
intensity, duration, delivery mode, resources needed, and mortality, and all-cause hospitalization.11 Emerging digital
outcomes measured. Currently, insufficient comparative health interventions hold promise to improve the transition
data are available to guide clinicians about which specific from hospital to home. For additional recommendations on
educational interventions are best. However, evidence nutrition, physical activity, smoking cessation, and alcohol
supports the use of individualized goal setting that dem- and substance use, refer to the “2023 AHA/ACC/ACCP/
onstrates respect for the patient and their circumstanc- ASPC/NLA/PCNA Guideline for Management of Pa-
es, structured content that is culturally appropriate, and tients With Chronic Coronary Disease.”12 Table 21 summa-
clearly defined outcomes.4 Table 20 lists the components rizes the recommended guidance for hospital discharge.
that should be discussed with ACS patients at the time of
10.5.3. Cardiac Rehabilitation
hospital discharge.
Recommendations for CR
10.5.2. Postdischarge Follow-Up and Systems of Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized in
the Evidence Table.
Care Coordination
COR LOE Recommendations
Synopsis
1. Patients with ACS should be referred to an
outpatient CR program prior to hospital
Transition from the hospital to home is a critical period for 1 A
discharge to reduce death, MI, hospital readmis-
patients with ACS because approximately 1 in 5 patients sions, and improve functional status and QOL.1–4
are readmitted within 30 days of discharge.1–6 Women, 2. In patients with ACS, a home-based CR program
individuals from traditionally underrepresented racial and 2a B-R is a reasonable alternative to a center-based CR
program to improve functional status and QOL.5–9
Table 20. Essential Components of Patient Education
Reason for hospitalization (explain reason for admission, diagnostic tests, Synopsis
procedural results)
CR is a multifaceted and comprehensive outpatient inter-
Tailored discussion of lifestyle modifications (AHA’s Life’s Essential 8)5
vention that is considered the standard of care for sec-
Medications (written and verbal instructions including purpose, dose, ondary prevention of CVD. The primary goals of CR are
frequency, potential adverse effects of each medication; refill instructions;
modifying CVD risk factors and improving patient func-
changes to prehospital regimen; importance of adherence)
tional capacity and QOL with the goal of reducing subse-
Symptom management (what to monitor for and actions to take should
symptoms recur, including whom to call) quent morbidity and mortality. Through a combination of
monitored exercise training, health and nutrition education,
Returning to daily routine (when to resume physical activity, sexual activity,
work, and travel) psychological support, and personalized patient assess-
ment, including medication optimization (Figure 10), CR
Psychosocial considerations (open dialogue about symptoms of depression
and anxiety) has been shown to lower the risk of cardiovascular and
Follow-up care (future appointments with cardiology, CR, additional testing all-cause death, reduce hospital readmissions, and to be
postdischarge) cost-effective.10,11 Despite its proven benefits, CR is under-
AHA indicates American Heart Association; and CR, cardiac rehabilitation. utilized and referral rates to CR are low, especially for wom-
e824 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 55 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Table 21. Guidance for ACS Discharge: Best Practices
Communication Patient centered, verbally and in writing in patient/caregiver preferred language
Shared decision-making regarding assessment of goals and preferences should be discussed with patient/caregiver
Clinical assessment Address comorbidities and risk factors for recurrent events
Assess for presence of ongoing ischemic symptoms, using standardized instrument ideally embedded into EHR
Assess risk for bleeding related to medications or procedural site
Assess need for additional testing (eg, repeat echocardiogram, staged PCI)
Assess whether vaccinations are current (eg, influenza)
Perform medication reconciliation, including a prescription for sublingual nitroglycerin, unless contraindicated
Patient/caregiver assessment Assess capacity for patient/caregiver for self-care (eg, secondary prevention, symptom monitoring, following plan of
care, lifestyle changes, contact information for continuing care team)
Provide verbal and written educational information related to self-care
Use teach-back method to confirm understanding of self-care
Use teach-back method for patient/caregiver understanding of medication adherence and treatment regimen
Referrals Confirm referral to CR
Provide educational materials related to CR including contact information
Social determinants of health Assess and address barriers to obtaining and taking prescribed medications, to include referral to pharmacy
assistance programs or social worker as appropriate
Assess and address barriers to attending CR, including viability of home-based or hybrid CR
ACS indicates acute coronary syndromes; CR, cardiac rehabilitation; EHR, electronic health record; and PCI, percutaneous coronary intervention.
en and members of traditionally underrepresented groups.8 health-related QOL outcomes over 12 months of
Factors that contribute to this overall low enrollment rate follow-up.1 Longer follow-up suggested reductions in
include a poor utilization of a centralized method for referral cardiovascular mortality.1,4 CR is particularly beneficial
via the electronic health record, inadequate communication in older patients with CAD, a group that is at a higher
between treatment teams, and perceived inconvenience as risk of losing independence and functioning.23–26
well as associated costs for the patient.8 To increase the 2. To overcome challenges that have prevented greater
utilization of CR, patients should be referred to CR dur- patient participation, new strategies and innovative
ing hospitalization for ACS and prior to discharge.12 To im- models that utilize digital health tools are emerging
prove access for patients who live in rural locations and in to meet the evolving needs of CR patients. CR pro-
areas with no center-based CR, home-based CR options grams have traditionally been delivered via center-
should be considered. These home-based CR programs based CR. These programs require patients to be
have similar shorter-term safety and clinical outcomes (eg, physically present at a facility located in a hospital
improvements in exercise capacity, QOL, blood pressure, or outpatient center, which limits access for many
cholesterol) as center-based CR.13–15 More intensive CR patients, especially women and some racial and eth-
programs have been developed with a goal of expanding nic groups.9,27,28 A review of 23 RCTs of home- and
the benefits of traditional CR programs through addition- center-based CR found that these programs tend
al exercise and education sessions, as well as placing a to implement the same core components.13 These
greater focus on diet and lifestyle factors.16–18 Although include patient assessment of current medical his-
improved outcomes have been described with an intensive tory, exercise training, dietary counseling, risk factor
program,16,19 the studies are observational in nature. Both management (eg, smoking, lipids, blood pressure,
traditional and intensive CR programs remain underutilized, weight, diabetes), and psychological intervention.
so the primary emphasis should be on enrollment and ad- Comparison of studies in home- and center-based
herence to any CR program.20 CR indicate a similar improvement in QOL and no sta-
tistically significant difference in the all-cause mor-
tality rate up to 12 months after the intervention.5,6
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
However, more RCTs are needed with home-based
1. Exercise-based CR programs are associated with CR in patients with ACS because of an evidence
improved survival and reduced risk of reinfarction in gap (especially in high-risk patients) in assessing
patients after AMI.1–4 CR can be enhanced as a com- the safety of home-based CR in patients at high
ponent of a multifactorial rehabilitation program with risk for recurrent ischemic events, as well the impact
risk factor education and counseling. Patients with of a home-based rehabilitation strategy on clinical
ACS who participate in CR have significantly better outcomes such as cardiovascular death, recurrent
outcomes compared with those who do not.1,21,22 In MI, and rehospitalization.29 Advances in technology
a meta-analysis of 85 RCTs of exercise-based CR and remote monitoring may help to improve the effi-
in patients with coronary heart disease, the inter- cacy and safety of this approach. Hybrid models that
vention reduced risk of MI, reduced all-cause hos- combine elements of both center- and home-based
pitalization, reduced health care costs, and improved programs may also offer benefits.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e825
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 56 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Figure 10. Core Components of Cardiac Rehabilitation.
Adapted with permission from Sandesara et al.30 Copyright 2015 American College of Cardiology Foundation.
11. DISCHARGE: LONG-TERM Recommendations for DAPT Strategies in the First 12 Months
Postdischarge (Continued)
MANAGEMENT AND SECONDARY
COR LOE Recommendations
PREVENTION
Bleeding Reduction Strategies
11.1. DAPT Strategies in the First 12 Months 2. In patients with ACS who have tolerated DAPT with
1 A ticagrelor, transition to ticagrelor monotherapy ≥1
Postdischarge
month post PCI is useful to reduce bleeding risk.7–11
3. In patients at high risk of gastrointestinal
Recommendations for DAPT Strategies in the First 12 Months bleeding, a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) is rec-
Postdischarge 1 A ommended in combination with DAPT, oral antico-
Referenced studies that support recommendations are summarized in agulants, or both to reduce risk of bleeding.12–15
the Evidence Table.
4. In patients with ACS undergoing PCI, de-
COR LOE Recommendations escalation of DAPT (switching from ticagrelor or
2b B-R
prasugrel to clopidogrel) after 1 month may be
Default Duration of DAPT
reasonable to reduce bleeding risk.16–20
1. In patients with ACS who are not at high bleeding 5. In patients with ACS undergoing PCI who are at
risk, DAPT with aspirin and an oral P2Y12 inhibi- high bleeding risk, transition to single antiplatelet
1 A 2b B-R
tor should be administered for at least 1 year to therapy (aspirin or P2Y12 inhibitor) after 1 month
reduce MACE.1–6 may be reasonable to reduce bleeding risk.21
e826 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 57 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Synopsis participants requiring surgical revascularization, the
safety and efficacy of DAPT should be considered
The addition of an oral P2Y12 inhibitor to aspirin (DAPT)
in the context of CABG as a postrandomization
reduces the risk of early and late thrombotic events
event and the high proportion of patients who did
among patients with ACS regardless of whether they not resume study drug after surgery.4–6 An impor-
are managed with an invasive strategy.1–3 Notwithstand-
tant consideration in extending the results of clini-
ing these salutary benefits, prolonged exposure to DAPT
cal trials that established the benefits of DAPT to
results in excess bleeding that may lead to DAPT inter-
contemporary cohorts is that patients at elevated
ruption,22 which in turn may increase the risk of recur-
risk for bleeding were typically excluded in early
rent ischemic events.23 Identifying individuals most likely
studies. Therefore, the default strategy for a mini-
to realize a net clinical benefit or harm from prolonged
mum DAPT duration of 1 year is most applicable to
DAPT has emerged as an important clinical priority. Sev-
those patients without high bleeding risk present-
eral tools have been developed that predict the risk of
ing with ACS. Moreover, the choice of P2Y12 inhib-
ischemic and/or bleeding events and may be useful
itor may vary in relation to treatment approach, as
when considering how best to personalize care for an
described in Section 4.3.2, “Oral P2Y12 Inhibitors
individual patient.24–27 Moreover, alternative antiplatelet
During Hospitalization.” In select patients who have
strategies have been compared with conventional DAPT
tolerated DAPT, it may be reasonable to extend
with the intent to reduce bleeding while maintaining isch-
treatment beyond 1 year after considering risks for
emic efficacy. Growing evidence suggests that a strategy
long-term bleeding and thrombosis.35–37
of aspirin discontinuation with ticagrelor monotherapy
2. Results from several randomized trials have con-
reduces bleeding.7–11 Although clopidogrel monotherapy
sistently shown that aspirin withdrawal followed
has been studied,28,29 interpatient variability in pharmaco-
by ticagrelor monotherapy after 1 to 3 months
dynamic response to clopidogrel is substantial30 and may
of ticagrelor-based DAPT results in less bleed-
increase thrombotic risk in certain individuals. To that
ing without clear excess in MACE, as compared
end, a strategy of clopidogrel monotherapy may increase
with continued DAPT among patients with ACS
risk of MACE in patients after ACS when compared with
undergoing PCI.7–11 Although studies examining
more prolonged DAPT.29 Additional approaches include
this strategy were characterized by relatively low
aspirin monotherapy31,32 or a strategy of “de-escalation”
rates of ischemic events, study-level38 and individ-
(ie, switching from ticagrelor or prasugrel to clopido-
ual patient data pooled analyses39–41 have yielded
grel),16–20 although the safety of these strategies in terms
similar results. Although data with clopidogrel have
of their effects on risk of MACE is less firmly established.
been mixed, concerns have been raised that a
Efficacy and safety of shorter DAPT strategies have not
strategy of clopidogrel monotherapy started 1 to
been rigorously studied in patients not undergoing PCI.
2 months after PCI may increase risk of MACE
Figure 11 summarizes the guideline recommendations
in patients with ACS when compared with longer
for DAPT management in patients with ACS during the
DAPT.29 It remains unknown whether this may be
first 12 months post discharge.
explained by excess thrombotic risk in patients
displaying inadequate platelet inhibition to clopi-
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
dogrel, observed in 30% to 40% of patients after
1. Patients with ACS are characterized by a sustained PCI.30,42 Results from a randomized trial showed
prothrombotic state,33 thus highlighting the need that a strategy of P2Y12 inhibitor discontinuation
for continued antithrombotic therapy beyond the followed by aspirin alone after 6 months of DAPT
index presentation. The double-blind placebo-con- resulted in excess thrombotic risk among patients
trolled CURE (Clopidogrel in Unstable Angina to with ACS undergoing PCI (n=2712; 38% STEMI),
Prevent Recurrent Events) trial (n=12 562) dem- albeit with less bleeding.32 Similar findings were
onstrated that DAPT with clopidogrel yields a con- observed with earlier P2Y12 inhibitor discontinu-
sistent reduction in both early and late composite ation 3 months after PCI.31,43 Although the on-
ischemic events as compared with aspirin alone treatment pharmacodynamic effects of ticagrelor
among patients with NSTE-ACS who were primar- and prasugrel are similar, the safety of a strategy of
ily managed medically.3,34 The treatment effect was prasugrel monotherapy has not been established
consistent among those treated with or without in patients ≥1 month post ACS; low-dose prasugrel
revascularization.4 Subsequent studies showed monotherapy (3.75 mg daily) in Japanese patients
that DAPT with prasugrel or ticagrelor adminis- very early after PCI with ACS or at high bleeding
tered for 1 year provides incremental reductions risk may increase 30-day MACE compared with
in ischemic events, albeit with excess bleeding, DAPT.44
as compared with clopidogrel.1,2 Although con- 3. PPIs reduce the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding
cordant benefits were also observed among trial among patients receiving aspirin,14 DAPT,13 or an oral
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e827
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 58 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Figure 11. DAPT Strategies in the First 12 Months Postdischarge.
Colors correspond to Class of Recommendation in Table 2. *High bleeding risk discussed in Section 11.1, “Recommendation-Specific Supportive
Text” item 5, and outlined in Table 22. ACS indicates acute coronary syndromes; DAPT, dual antiplatelet therapy; OAC, oral anticoagulant; PCI,
percutaneous coronary intervention; and SAPT, single antiplatelet therapy.
anticoagulant.12,15 Because the conversion of clopi- continue to receive clopidogrel, whereas nonre-
dogrel to its active metabolite and the metabolism sponders are switched to a more potent P2Y12
of certain PPIs depend on some common hepatic inhibitor. Clopidogrel responsiveness may also be
enzymes (eg, CYP2C19), the potential for a drug- inferred with use of genotyping assays that iden-
drug interaction exists when both agents are coad- tify polymorphisms in genes involved in clopido-
ministered. The results of several ex vivo studies grel metabolism.52 Clinical trials examining guided
found that clopidogrel-induced platelet inhibition is de-escalation after PCI have either shown a lack
attenuated with use of certain PPIs, a pharmacody- of benefit,16 noninferiority,20 or reductions in minor
namic effect that is most pronounced with omepra- bleeding17 versus conventional DAPT. By con-
zole.45,46 Nonetheless, results from a double-blind, trast, unguided de-escalation is performed without
placebo-controlled randomized trial showed no antecedent knowledge of platelet responsiveness.
significant differences in ischemic events between Randomized trials have suggested that unguided
omeprazole versus placebo among patients treated de-escalation 1 month after PCI reduces bleeding
with clopidogrel, but PPI use markedly decreased without incurring ischemic risk as compared with
the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding.13 Moreover, longer term prasugrel- or ticagrelor-based DAPT.18,19
post hoc analyses from several randomized tri- Pooled analyses have shown that de-escalation
als have shown that ischemic risk is not increased (guided or unguided) yields comparable efficacy to
when a clinically indicated PPI is used with clopi- DAPT with respect to ischemic events while reducing
dogrel.47,48 Importantly, the antiplatelet effects and bleeding.53,54 However, trials of ticagrelor and prasu-
clinical efficacy of ticagrelor and prasugrel are not grel have suggested that the benefit of more potent
appreciably modified with concomitant PPI use.48–50 P2Y12 inhibitor therapy extends beyond the early
Therefore, it is recommended to administer a PPI in phase post ACS, but with increased bleeding.1,2,55
patients with ACS at elevated bleeding risk treated 5. In the MASTER DAPT (Management of High
with DAPT or oral anticoagulant. Bleeding Risk Patients Post Bioresorbable Polymer
4. De-escalation implies modulating DAPT intensity Coated Stent Implantation With an Abbreviated
by switching from ticagrelor or prasugrel to clopido- Versus Standard DAPT Regimen) trial, patients at
grel.51 De-escalation can be guided by the results high risk of bleeding who had completed a 4-week
of platelet function assays that quantify the degree course of DAPT after successful PCI with drug-
of platelet inhibition among patients treated with eluting stents were randomly allocated to single
clopidogrel. Patients with adequate response may antiplatelet therapy or more prolonged DAPT (≥2
e828 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 59 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Table 22. Academic Research Consortium High Bleeding Risk Criteria After PCI
Major Criteria26 Minor Criteria
Age ≥75 y
Anticipated use of long-term oral anticoagulation (Section 11.1.1, “Antiplatelet
Therapy in Patients on Anticoagulation Postdischarge”)
Severe or end-stage CKD (eGFR <30 mL/min) Moderate CKD (eGFR 30-59 mL/min)
Hemoglobin level <11 g/dL Hemoglobin level 11-12.9 g/dL for men and 11-11.9 g/dL for women
Spontaneous bleeding requiring hospitalization or transfusion in the past 6 mo Spontaneous bleeding requiring hospitalization or transfusion within the past
or at any time, if recurrent 12 mo not meeting the major criterion
Moderate or severe baseline thrombocytopenia (platelet count <100×109/L)
Chronic bleeding diathesis
Liver cirrhosis with portal hypertension
Long-term use of oral NSAIDs or steroids
Active malignancy (excluding nonmelanoma skin cancer) within the past 12 mo
Previous spontaneous ICH (at any time) Any ischemic stroke at any time not meeting the major criterion
Previous traumatic ICH within the past 12 mo
Presence of a brain arteriovenous malformation
Moderate or severe ischemic stroke within the past 6 mo
Nondeferrable major surgery on DAPT
Recent major surgery or major trauma within 30 d before PCI
The presence of at least 1 major or 2 minor criteria helps to identify those at increased risk of bleeding. Modified with permission from Urban et al.26 Copyright 2019
American Heart Association, Inc.
CKD indicates chronic kidney disease; DAPT, dual antiplatelet therapy; eGFR, estimated glomerular filtration rate; NSAID, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs; ICH,
intracranial hemorrhage; and PCI, percutaneous coronary intervention.
additional months).21 In the absence of oral antico- 11.1.1. Antiplatelet Therapy in Patients on
agulant use, the choice of discontinuing aspirin or Anticoagulation Postdischarge
P2Y12 inhibitor and the choice of P2Y12 inhibitor
Recommendation for Antiplatelet Therapy in Patients on
was at the discretion of the treating physician. An Anticoagulation Postdischarge
oral anticoagulant was used in 36.4% of patients, Referenced studies that support recommendation are summarized in
the Evidence Table.
and clopidogrel monotherapy was selected in
53.9% of patients randomized to abbreviated COR LOE Recommendation
DAPT. Compared with standard therapy, an abbrevi- 1. In patients with ACS who require oral
anticoagulant therapy, aspirin should be
ated antiplatelet strategy demonstrated noninferior-
discontinued after 1 to 4 weeks of triple
ity with respect to composite ischemic events and 1 B-R antithrombotic therapy, with continued use of a
superiority regarding clinically relevant bleeding P2Y12 inhibitor (preferably clopidogrel) and an
oral anticoagulant to reduce bleeding risk.*1–5
over 1 year. Among patients with ACS (n=1780;
30% STEMI) allocated to an abbreviated strategy, *Modified from the “2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Guideline for Coronary Artery
Revascularization.”6
clinicians selected a potent P2Y12 inhibitor with
ticagrelor use in approximately 25% of patients.56
Synopsis
Results in the ACS cohort were qualitatively consis-
tent with the overall trial results with respect to both Patients after ACS may frequently have indications for
ischemic and bleeding outcomes. Although the trial anticoagulant therapy, including AF, venous thrombo-
demonstrated noninferiority for abbreviated DAPT embolism, and prosthetic heart valves. Bleeding risks
with respect to MACE in patients at high bleeding are increased in the setting of triple therapy with the
risk, it was underpowered to determine the rela- combination of aspirin, P2Y12 inhibitor, and anticoagu-
tive safety of discontinuing aspirin versus P2Y12 lant. Therefore, the benefits of these therapies must be
inhibitor. Multiple studies have identified clinical weighed against the risk of bleeding. A growing num-
and laboratory predictors of bleeding and/or isch- ber of studies have demonstrated the overall safety of
emic risk.24–27 The Academic Research Consortium a strategy of aspirin discontinuation 1 to 4 weeks after
determined 20 correlates of bleeding and proposed ACS or PCI in patients who require anticoagulation after
a consensus-based definition of high bleeding risk ACS.1–5 For most patients, a DOAC will be preferred over
as the presence of having at least 1 major or 2 a vitamin K antagonist due to their favorable efficacy and
minor criteria at time of PCI (Table 22).26 safety profile.7 Trials of more potent P2Y12 inhibitors
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e829
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 60 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
(ie, prasugrel and ticagrelor) excluded patients requiring lowering therapies currently available, many patients with
long-term anticoagulation; therefore, clopidogrel is gen- ACS do not achieve target LDL-C levels.4,5 The reasons
erally favored as the P2Y12 inhibitor in this setting for are varied but include underprescribing by providers, cost
most patients. The decision whether to continue antico- or insufficient coverage by medical insurance companies,
agulant with or without antiplatelet therapy >12 months and intolerance to therapies. Many patients are also un-
after ACS is addressed in the “2023 AHA/ACC/ACCP/ willing or unable to readily fill prescriptions at pharma-
ASPC/NLA/PCNA Guideline for the Management of cies or patients self-discontinue therapy early. Providers
Patients with Chronic Coronary Disease.”8 are not always aware of the barriers that patients may
be experiencing; therefore, a conversation between clini-
cian and patient is important to help improve adherence. If
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
adverse effects are experienced, consideration should be
1. Several RCTs have demonstrated that the dis- given to subsequent rechallenge at each visit or chang-
continuation of aspirin 1 to 4 weeks after PCI ing to a different type of statin or class of lipid-lowering
reduces the risk of bleeding in patients with AF therapy. Statin intolerance requires exposure to at least
with an indication for DAPT and an oral antico- 2 different statins with 1 prescribed at the lowest avail-
agulant.1–5 Although individual studies were not able dose. Because risk of MACE is elevated in the early
powered for ischemic endpoints, meta-analyses months after ACS, early follow-up visits are important
across randomized trials suggest no difference in for making appropriate changes to lipid-lowering thera-
mortality, stroke, and overall MACE when aspirin py to help achieve desired LDL-C targets (Section 4.5,
is discontinued for patients on an oral anticoagu- “Lipid Management”). Importantly, lipid-lowering therapies
lant, albeit with a marginal apparent increase in should not be downtitrated in response to very low LDL-C
MI and stent thrombosis.9–14 An analysis of stent concentrations, because current evidence supports that
thrombosis rates suggested that 80% of events
those with very low LDL-C concentrations are at lowest
occurred within 30 days of PCI, with stent throm- risk of MACE without any clear safety concern.6–9
bosis events numerically less frequent in those
receiving aspirin (randomization was approximately
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
1 week after PCI) compared with placebo in the
AUGUSTUS (Antithrombotic Therapy After Acute 1. Use of high-potency statin therapy has been
Coronary Syndrome or PCI in Atrial Fibrillation) shown to reduce MACE with the benefit appearing
trial.15,16 Therefore, in patients with a high risk of early after ACS and persisting with time.10 To date,
stent thrombosis, aspirin for up to 30 days after evidence suggests the benefit of lowering LDL-C
PCI could be considered. P2Y12 inhibitor therapy concentrations may be irrespective of whether it
should be continued for at least 12 months after is achieved through high-potency statins or other
PCI following aspirin discontinuation but could be lipid-lowering therapies; however, the largest body
discontinued earlier in those with multiple risk fac- of evidence exists with statin therapies. As such,
tors for bleeding.17,18 early intensification of lipid-lowering therapy after
ACS is justified. In clinical practice, statin-eligible
11.2. Reassessment of Lipid Levels patients remain undertreated or untreated.1,11 Early
and frequent follow-up, including lipid testing, is
Postdischarge
associated with improved adherence to lipid-lower-
Recommendation for Reassessment of Lipid Levels Postdischarge ing therapies.1 In the PALM (Provider Assessment
of Lipid Management) registry, less than one-half
COR LOE Recommendation
of adults were on the statin intensity recommended
1. In patients after ACS, a fasting lipid panel is
recommended 4 to 8 weeks after initiation or by the guidelines.12 In a study of US veterans with
1 C-LD
dose adjustment of lipid-lowering therapy to a history of ACS or coronary revascularization, less
assess response or adherence to therapy.*1,2
than one-half of patients received intensification
*Modified from the “2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/ of lipid-lowering therapy (41.9% at 3 months ver-
AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA Guideline on the Management of Blood Cho-
sus 47.3% at 1-year postdischarge).5 High patient
lesterol.”3
copays and poor coverage of newer lipid-lowering
therapies by some prescription plans are factors
Synopsis
contributing to suboptimal LDL target attainment.
Aggressive LDL-C lowering is an important component of To that end, out-of-pocket costs should be verified
secondary CVD prevention. For every 1.0-mmol/L (∼39 and discussed with patients before they fill a pre-
mg/dL) reduction of LDL-C, an approximate 22% relative scription for a new lipid-lowering therapy. Education
reduction in cardiovascular events is observed over a pe- about the importance of lipid-lowering therapies
riod of 4 to 5 years.2 Despite the growing number of lipid- should be discussed with patients at visits to allow
e830 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 61 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
them the opportunity to ask questions and review Colchicine reduces neutrophil adhesion to endothelial
potential barriers. For the management of lipid- cells and platelets and has been shown to reduce high-
lowering therapy initiated prior to discharge and sensitivity C-reactive protein concentration and low-at-
continued after hospital discharge, refer to Section tenuation plaque volume in patients already on aspirin
4.5, “Lipid Management.” and statin therapy.6–9 Colchicine is associated with a
lower risk of MI in patients with gout, as well as in pa-
tients with CAD, including those with prior MI.1,4,5,10,11 Al-
11.3. SGLT-2 Inhibitors and GLP-1 Receptor
though gastrointestinal events were historically reported
Agonists at a higher rate in patients on colchicine, this rate does
not differ from placebo at the lower once daily dosing.5 A
Synopsis
meta-analysis of the studies examining colchicine in pa-
The cardiovascular benefits of both sodium glucose co- tients with CAD reported no difference in all-cause death
transporter-2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors and glucagon-like pep- with colchicine versus placebo, but a nonsignificant trend
tide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists are well documented was observed toward an increased risk of noncardiovas-
in stable patients with ASCVD and type 2 diabetes,1–6 as cular death that requires further study.5 To date, no po-
well as in patients with HF regardless of diabetes sta- tential pathogeneses of the noncardiovascular deaths
tus.7–11 GLP-1 receptor agonists may lead to weight loss have been consistently shown to explain the numerical
in many patients, and semaglutide has been shown to differences in noncardiovascular death.5
reduce the risk of MACE in overweight or obese patients
with stable ASCVD but has not been studied early after
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
ACS.12 SGLT-2 inhibitors may increase the risk of urinary
tract infection, genital mycotic infection, hypovolemia, 1. COLCOT (Colchicine Cardiovascular Outcomes
and acute kidney injury (while offering longer term renal Trial) randomized patients ≤30 days (median, 14
benefit in patients with diabetes). Due to a higher risk of days) after MI to low-dose colchicine versus pla-
diabetic and euglycemic ketoacidosis in the periopera- cebo.2 Colchicine reduced the primary outcome of
tive period, canagliflozin, dapagliflozin, and empagliflozin cardiovascular death, resuscitated cardiac arrest,
should be stopped ≥3 days and ertugliflozin ≥4 days prior MI, stroke, or urgent coronary revascularization by
to scheduled surgery, including CABG.13–15 32% (median follow-up, 22.6 months). Although
The efficacy and safety of SGLT-2 inhibitors have directional consistency was seen across individual
now been studied in 2 large trials of patients after MI. components, this benefit was driven by a reduction
In patients without diabetes or HF, dapagliflozin was in hospitalizations for angina requiring revascular-
not shown to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death or ization and stroke. The smaller COPS (Colchicine
HF hospitalization in patients with AMI and impaired LV in Patients With ACS) study randomized patients
systolic function.16 Similarly, empagliflozin did not signifi- during their index hospitalization of ACS to col-
cantly reduce all-cause death or first HF hospitalization chicine versus placebo.3 The primary endpoint of
in patients without prior HF who were hospitalized with all-cause death, ACS, unplanned ischemia-driven
AMI and found to have impaired LV systolic function with urgent revascularization, and noncardioembolic
or without signs of congestion. However, empagliflozin ischemic stroke was numerically, but not signifi-
did reduce HF hospitalizations in this population.17 No cantly, lower for patients on colchicine (P =0.09).
new safety concerns were identified. Therefore, use of an Although deaths were infrequent, more deaths
SGLT-2 inhibitor does not need to be deferred in patients occurred for patients on colchicine than on pla-
with an indication for its use at hospital discharge. cebo (8 versus 1; P =0.017) due to more non-
cardiovascular deaths. In a post hoc analysis, the
composite outcome of cardiovascular death, ACS,
11.4. Use of Chronic Colchicine
stroke, or urgent revascularization was lower for
Recommendation for Use of Chronic Colchicine colchicine than placebo. The LoDoCo2 (Low-Dose
Referenced studies that support recommendation are summarized in Colchicine-2) trial enrolled patients with stable (>6
the Evidence Table.
months) coronary disease, demonstrating a reduc-
COR LOE Recommendation tion in the composite of cardiovascular death, MI,
1. In patients after ACS, low-dose colchicine may ischemic stroke, or ischemia-driven coronary revas-
2b B-R
be reasonable to reduce risk of MACE.1–5
cularization with colchicine (median follow-up, 28.6
months); findings were consistent in the 84% of
patients with prior ACS.4,12 Pooled data from these
Synopsis
large trials confirmed a reduction in the incidence of
Colchicine is a botanical-derived anti-inflammatory agent MACE with colchicine versus placebo.5 Colchicine
that has been used for millennia in the treatment of gout. should not be administered in patients with blood
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e831
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 62 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
dyscrasias, renal failure (creatinine clearance <15 risk of cardiovascular death compared with pla-
mL/min), severe hepatic impairment, or with con- cebo at 1 year.1
comitant P-glycoprotein and/or strong CYP3A4
inhibitors. Although the trials studied a dose of 0.5
mg daily, daily dosing of 0.5 mg or 0.6 mg may be 12. EVIDENCE GAPS AND FUTURE
considered. There are ongoing trials studying the DIRECTIONS
efficacy of colchicine in patients after MI.
The treatment of ACS has been the subject of thou-
sands of clinical trials comprising very large numbers of
11.5. Immunization patients. As such, its management is guided by the larg-
est evidence base in clinical medicine. Despite this, there
Recommendation for Immunization
are numerous unanswered questions, evidence gaps,
Referenced studies that support recommendation are summarized in
the Evidence Table. and areas for further study. Some of these areas have
been addressed by observational studies but were not in-
COR LOE Recommendation
cluded in this guideline because the LOE was insufficient
1. In patients with ACS without a contraindication,
1 A annual influenza vaccination is recommended to to guide clinical practice. Other areas were not included
reduce the risk of death and MACE.1–4 because they are less well defined and require more de-
tailed study. This section summarizes some higher prior-
ity evidence gaps and areas for future study.
Synopsis
Influenza infection is associated with increased risks of
INITIAL EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.5 Previous studies
have shown that influenza infection may contribute to Although the 2025 ACS guideline recognizes the value
atherogenesis and plaque destabilization, thereby pre- of risk scores in estimating the risk of death or recurrent
cipitating the occurrence of ACS.6,7 Influenza vaccine MI, limited prospective randomized data are available as
has been shown to reduce the risk of death and MACE to whether risk scores should be used to determine treat-
in patients after ACS and ASCVD and should therefore ment strategies. The highest risk patients are those who
be administered in patients without contraindication.1–3,5,8 present after a cardiac arrest. Although the data support
Other illnesses such as COVID-19 and pneumococcal an invasive approach in patients who have been resus-
pneumonia increase risk of cardiovascular events and citated and who have evidence of ST-segment elevation
death in patients with ASCVD. However, randomized on the postarrest ECG, any potential benefit of coronary
trial data are lacking to support routine administration of angiography may be attenuated in those who are coma-
other vaccines for patients at time of hospitalization for tose. Similarly, it is less clear whether reperfusion with
ACS. As such, regular immunization schedules are sup- either fibrinolysis or primary PCI provides clinical benefit
ported for all patients per the US Centers for Disease in patients with ST-segment elevation who present late
Control and Prevention recommendations in the absence after symptom onset (12 to 48 hours) but who are no
of contraindication.9 longer symptomatic. Further research is needed to define
the role of coronary angiography and revascularization in
these patient subgroups.
Recommendation-Specific Supportive Text
1. In the FLUVACS (Flu Vaccination in Acute
In-Hospital Management of ACS
Coronary Syndromes and Planned Percutaneous
Coronary Interventions) study, cardiovascular death Patients with ACS are placed on telemetry to monitor
was lower in patients who received influenza vac- for life-threatening arrhythmias or for rhythm disturbanc-
cination compared with the control group at both es that may require further therapy (eg, atrioventricular
6-month (2% versus 8%) and 1-year follow-up block, AF). Given the length of stay for most patients with
(6% versus 17%). The triple composite endpoint of ACS has decreased significantly, the optimal duration of
cardiovascular death, nonfatal MI, and rehospital- telemetry monitoring with contemporary management is
ization for severe recurrent ischemia at 1 year was unclear. The increasingly rapid triage and timing of inva-
significantly lower in the vaccine group compared sive risk stratification also calls into question the value of
with controls.2,10 Among patients admitted with MI “preloading” of oral P2Y12 inhibitors, with preloading de-
or high-risk coronary heart disease, influenza vac- fined as administering the loading dose prior to coronary
cine administered within 72 hours of an invasive angiography. As outlined in this document, clinical trials
coronary procedure or hospitalization resulted in a of preloading have not shown a compelling benefit when
lower risk of the composite primary outcome of all- coronary angiography occurs rapidly after the patient’s
cause death, MI, or stent thrombosis and a lower clinical presentation. Nonetheless, the pharmacodynamic
e832 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 63 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
effects of clopidogrel are delayed due to its need to be MI. The role of DOACs in this setting appears prudent
metabolized to its active metabolite, and there are re- but is not supported by a robust body of data. Other com-
ports that the antiplatelet effects of all P2Y12 inhibitors plications such as post-MI pericarditis now have several
may be delayed in patients with STEMI. In this context, therapeutic options, but no comparative data are available
parenteral P2Y12 inhibition could be considered but has to help determine which approach is optimal.
not yet been compared to a strategy of more potent oral With respect to long-term secondary prevention, more
P2Y12 inhibitor administration. Other drug therapies in research is needed to determine whether home-based
need of further evaluation in the ACS setting include CR provides the same benefit as facility-based programs
the utility of sacubitril-valsartan, nonstatin lipid-lowering and results in higher rates of adherence. Randomized
therapies (including clinical outcome studies for PCSK9 trials of GLP-1 receptor agonists post MI will be impor-
inhibitors early after ACS), and GLP-1 receptor agonists tant to understand the role of these agents in reducing
for reducing short- and long-term MACE after ACS. The long-term risk in patients with diabetes or those who are
clinical benefit of beta blockers in the setting of patients overweight or with obesity. Finally, data are lacking on the
with NSTE-ACS requires further study, as well as the op- use of high-dose aspirin in those with post-MI pericar-
timal duration of their use after ACS. ditis, and additional data would be useful to confirm the
For patients with MVD found during coronary angiog- efficacy of colchicine post ACS.
raphy, there are several remaining gaps in evidence. In
patients with NSTEMI, the role of multivessel PCI versus
PEER REVIEW COMMITTEE MEMBERS
culprit-only PCI needs further supportive data. As a cor-
ollary, whether multivessel PCI in the ACS setting should Hani Jneid, MD, FACC, FAHA, FSCAI, Chair; Craig J.
be guided by angiography or physiology is still a matter Beavers, PharmD, FACC, FAHA; Theresa Beckie, PhD,
of debate. Finally, as noted in this guideline, the recom- RN, FAHA; Jim Blankenship, MD, MACC; Deborah Di-
mendations for PCI of nonculprit arteries in patients with ercks, MD, FACC; Bruce Lo, MD*; Clauden Louis, MD,
STEMI are for patients who are not intended for CABG, FACC; Faisal M. Merchant, MD, FACC; Noreen T. Nazir,
which is a qualifier based on the inclusion criteria of the MD, FACC; Derek So, MD, MSc, FACC; Matthew Tomey,
randomized trials. The optimal strategy for patients who MD, FACC, FAHA, FSCAI; Frederick Welt, MD, FACC†
have more complex anatomy is less clear.
The 2025 ACS guideline includes a new recommen-
dation regarding the management of cardiogenic shock ACC/AHA JOINT COMMITTEE ON
using the microaxial flow pump MCS device. Because CLINICAL PRACTICE GUIDELINES
the benefit of this device was offset by an increase in
MEMBERS
serious complications, more data are needed to guide
the selection of patients for MCS, the timing of MCS Catherine M. Otto, MD, FACC, FAHA, Chair; Sunil V. Rao,
placement and duration of support, and strategies to MD, FACC, FSCAI, Chair-Elect; Joshua A. Beckman, MD,
reduce the risks of vascular complications, bleeding, and MS, FAHA, FACC, Immediate Past Chair‡; Anastasia
limb ischemia. Armbruster, PharmD, FACC; Vanessa Blumer, MD, FACC;
Leslie L. Davis, PhD, RN, ANP-BC, FACC, FAHA; Lisa de
las Fuentes, MD, MS, FAHA‡; Anita Deswal, MD, MPH,
DISCHARGE STRATEGIES AND FACC, FAHA‡; Victor A. Ferrari, MD, FACC; Stephen E.
SECONDARY PREVENTION Fremes, MD, FACC; Mario Gaudino, MD, FACC, FAHA;
Adrian F. Hernandez, MD, FAHA‡; Hani Jneid, MD, FACC,
One of the most important areas needing further clarifi-
FAHA; Heather M. Johnson, MD, MS, FACC, FAHA; W.
cation is the timeline defining the transition of a patient
Schuyler Jones, MD, FACC; Sadiya S. Khan, MD, MSc,
from ACS to chronic coronary syndrome. The 2025 ACS
FACC, FAHA; Prateeti Khazanie, MD, FAHA‡; Michelle
guideline does not define this largely because no data
M. Kittleson, MD, FACC, FAHA; Venu Menon, MD, FACC,
exist to guide any recommendations. Moreover, it is likely
FAHA; Debabrata Mukherjee, MD, MS, FACC, FAHA,
that this transition is highly individualized and accounts for
MSCAI; Latha Palaniappan, MD, MS, FACC, FAHA‡;
the patient’s risk at initial presentation, the status of resid-
Tanveer Rab, MD, FACC, MSCAI‡; Garima Sharma, MBBS,
ual unrevascularized CAD, control of cardiovascular risk
FACC, FAHA; Daichi Shimbo, MD; Jacqueline E. Tamis-
factors, and bleeding risk with continued antithrombotic
Holland, MD, FACC, FAHA, FSCAI‡; Y. Joseph Woo, MD,
therapy. Once a patient is deemed to have transitioned
FACC, FAHA‡; Boback Ziaeian, MD, PhD, FACC, FAHA
to having a “chronic coronary syndrome,” the question of
how to or whether to de-escalate antiplatelet therapies
is unclear. These decisions may also be influenced by *American College of Emergency Physicians representative
†Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions representative.
complications of ACS requiring additional antithrombotic
‡Former ACC/AHA Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines member;
therapy such as LV thrombus from a large anterior wall current member during this writing effort.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e833
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 64 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
PRESIDENTS AND STAFF “Guidelines & Statements” drop-down menu near the top of the webpage, then
click “Publication Development.”
American College of Cardiology Permissions: Multiple copies, modification, alteration, enhancement, and dis-
tribution of this document are not permitted without the express permission of the
Cathleen Biga, MSN, FACC, President American Heart Association. Instructions for obtaining permission are located at
https://www.heart.org/permissions. A link to the “Copyright Permissions Request
Cathleen C. Gates, Chief Executive Officer
Form” appears in the second paragraph (https://www.heart.org/en/about-us/
Richard J. Kovacs, MD, MACC, Chief Medical Officer statements-and-policies/copyright-request-form).
Justine Varieur Turco, Divisional Vice President, Scientific
Publications and Guidelines
Mindy J. Saraco, MHA, Director, Clinical Policy and REFERENCES
Guidelines PREAMBLE
Grace D. Ronan, Senior Production and Operations Man-
1. Committee on Standards for Systematic Reviews of Comparitive Effective-
ager, Clinical Policy Publications ness Research, Institute of Medicine (US). Finding what works in healthcare:
Leah Patterson, Project Manager, Clinical Content Devel- standards for systematic reviews. National Academies Press; 2011.
2. Anderson JL, Heidenreich PA, Barnett PG, et al. ACC/AHA statement on
opment
cost/value methodology in clinical practice guidelines and performance
measures: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
American College of Cardiology/American Association Task Force on Performance Measures and Task Force on Prac-
tice Guidelines. Circulation. 2014;129:2329–2345.
Heart Association
3. ACCF/AHA Task Force on Practice Guidelines. Methodology Manual and
Policies From the ACCF/AHA Task Force on Practice Guidelines. American
Thomas S.D. Getchius, National Senior Director, Guide-
College of Cardiology and American Heart Association. 2010. Accessed
lines June 3, 2024. https://www.acc.org/-/media/Non-Clinical/Files-PDFs-
Abdul R. Abdullah, MD, Director, Guideline Science and Excel-MS-Word-etc/Guidelines/About-Guidelines-and-Clinical-Documents/
Methodology/2014/Methodology-Practice-Guidelines.pdf?la=en&
Methodology
hash=157B7835091CF7856B26528717BE14B33BE8226F and https://
professional.heart.org/-/media/phd-files/guidelines-and-statements/
American Heart Association methodology_manual_and_policies_ucm_319826.pdf.
4. Halperin JL, Levine GN, Al-Khatib SM, et al. Further evolution of the ACC/
Keith Churchwell, MD, FAHA, President AHA clinical practice guideline recommendation classification system: a re-
Nancy Brown, Chief Executive Officer port of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task
Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2016;133:1426–1428.
Mariell Jessup, MD, FAHA, Chief Science and Medical
5. Arnett DK, Goodman RA, Halperin JL, et al. AHA/ACC/HHS strategies to
Officer enhance application of clinical practice guidelines in patients with cardio-
Nicole Aiello Sapio, EdD, Executive Vice President, Office vascular disease and comorbid conditions: from the American Heart Asso-
ciation, American College of Cardiology, and US Department of Health and
of Science Strategies and Operations
Human Services. Circulation. 2014;130:1662–1667.
Radhika Rajgopal Singh, PhD, Senior Vice President, 6. Levine GN, O’Gara PT, Beckman JA, et al. Recent innovations, modifications,
Office of Science and Medicine and evolution of ACC/AHA clinical practice guidelines: an update for our
constituencies: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Prashant Nedungadi, BPharm, PhD, National Vice
Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation.
President, Science and Medicine, Clinical Guidelines 2019;139:e879–e886.
Paul St. Laurent, DNP, RN, National Vice President,
1.4. Scope of the Guideline
Office of Science and Medicine
1. O’Gara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, et al. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline
Jody Hundley, Senior Production and Operations for the management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: a report of the
Manager, Scientific Publications, Office of Science American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association
Task Force on Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2013;127:e362–e425.
Operations
2. Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, et al. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for
the management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes:
a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association
ARTICLE INFORMATION Task Force on Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2014;130:e344–e426.
3. Levine GN, Bates ER, Blankenship JC, et al. 2015 ACC/AHA/SCAI Fo-
This document was approved by the American College of Cardiology Clinical Pol- cused update on primary percutaneous coronary intervention for patients
icy Approval Committee and the American Heart Association Science Advisory with ST-elevation myocardial infarction: an update of the 2011 ACCF/
and Coordinating Committee in October 2024, the American College of Cardiol- AHA/SCAI guideline for percutaneous coronary intervention and the 2013
ogy Science and Quality Committee in October 2024, and the American Heart ACCF/AHA guideline for the management of ST-elevation myocardial in-
Association Executive Committee in November 2024. farction. Circulation. 2016;133:1135–1147.
Supplemental materials are available with this article at https://www.ahajour- 4. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalor S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI
nals.org/doi/suppl/10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col-
This article has been copublished in the Journal of the American College of lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical
Cardiology. Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114.
Copies: This document is available on the websites of the American 5. Levine GN, Bates ER, Bittl JA, et al. 2016 ACC/AHA guideline focused
Heart Association (professional.heart.org) and the American College of Car- update on duration of dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with coronary
diology (www.acc.org). A copy of the document is also available at https:// artery disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American
professional.heart.org/statements by selecting the “Guidelines & State- Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation.
ments” button. To purchase additional reprints, call 215-356-2721 or email 2016;134:e123–e155.
Meredith.Edelman@wolterskluwer.com. 6. Martin SS, Aday AW, Almarzooq ZI, et al. 2024 Heart disease and stroke
The expert peer review of AHA-commissioned documents (eg, scientific statistics: a report of US and global data from the American Heart Associa-
statements, clinical practice guidelines, systematic reviews) is conducted by the tion. Circulation. 2024;149:e347–e913.
AHA Office of Science Operations. For more on AHA statements and guide- 7. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and National Center for Health
lines development, visit https://professional.heart.org/statements. Select the Statistics. National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES),
e834 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 65 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
2017-2020. Accessed April 16, 2024. https://wwwn.cdc.gov/nchs/ agement of blood cholesterol: a report of the American College of Cardiol-
nhanes/continuousnhanes/default.aspx?Cycle=2017-2020. ogy/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines.
8. Tsao CW, Aday AW, Almarzooq ZI, et al. Heart disease and stroke statis- Circulation. 2019;139:e1082–e1143.
tics-2023 update: a report from the American Heart Association. Circulation. 31. Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/
2023;147:e93–e621. ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention,
9. Roe MT, Messenger JC, Weintraub WS, et al. Treatments, trends, and out- detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a
comes of acute myocardial infarction and percutaneous coronary interven- report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association
tion. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2010;56:254–263. Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Hypertension. 2018;71:e13–
10. Bishu KG, Lekoubou A, Kirkland E, et al. Estimating the economic burden of e115.
acute myocardial infarction in the US: 12 year national data. Am J Med Sci. 32. Arnett DK, Blumenthal RS, Albert MA, et al. 2019 ACC/AHA guideline on
2020;359:257–265. the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease: a report of the American
11. Cowper PA, Knight JD, Davidson-Ray L, et al. Acute and 1-year hospitaliza- College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical
tion costs for acute myocardial infarction treated with percutaneous coro- Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2019;140:e596–e646.
nary intervention: results from the TRANSLATE-ACS registry. J Am Heart 33. Gulati M, Levy PD, Mukherjee D, et al. 2021 AHA/ACC/ASE/CHEST/
Assoc. 2019;8:e011322. SAEM/SCCT/SCMR guideline for the evaluation and diagnosis of chest
12. Chaudhry SI, Khan RF, Chen J, et al. National trends in recurrent AMI hospi- pain: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
talizations 1 year after acute myocardial infarction in Medicare beneficiaries: Association Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation.
1999-2010. J Am Heart Assoc. 2014;3:e001197. 2021;144:e368–e454.
13. Brown TM, Deng L, Becker DJ, et al. Trends in mortality and recurrent coro- 34. Kleindorfer DO, Towfighi A, Chaturvedi S, et al. 2021 Guideline for the pre-
nary heart disease events after an acute myocardial infarction among Medi- vention of stroke in patients with stroke and transient ischemic attack: a
care beneficiaries, 2001-2009. Am Heart J. 2015;170:249–255. guideline from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Associa-
14. Graham G. Racial and ethnic differences in acute coronary syndrome and tion. Stroke. 2021;52:e364–e467.
myocardial infarction within the United States: from demographics to out- 35. Heidenreich PA, Bozkurt B, Aguilar D, et al. 2022 AHA/ACC/HFSA guide-
comes. Clin Cardiol. 2016;39:299–306. line for the management of heart failure: a report of the American College of
15. Nadruz W Jr, Claggett B, Henglin M, et al. Widening racial differences in Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical Prac-
risks for coronary heart disease. Circulation. 2018;137:1195–1197. tice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e895–e1032.
16. Nanna MG, Navar AM, Zakroysky P, et al. Association of patient perceptions 36. Virani SS, Newby LK, Arnold SV, et al. 2023 AHA/ACC/ACCP/ASPC/
of cardiovascular risk and beliefs on statin drugs with racial differences in NLA/PCNA guideline for the management of patients with chronic coro-
statin use: insights from the Patient and Provider Assessment of Lipid Man- nary disease: a report of the American Heart Association/American College
agement Registry. JAMA Cardiol. 2018;3:739–748. of Cardiology Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation.
17. Aggarwal R, Chiu N, Wadhera RK, et al. Racial/ethnic disparities in hyper- 2023;148:e9–e119.
tension prevalence, awareness, treatment, and control in the United States, 37. Joglar JA, Chung MK, Armbruster AL, et al. 2023 ACC/AHA/ACCP/HRS
2013 to 2018. Hypertension. 2021;78:1719–1726. guideline for the diagnosis and management of atrial fibrillation: a report
18. Golomb M, Redfors B, Crowley A, et al. Prognostic impact of race in patients of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint
undergoing PCI: analysis from 10 randomized coronary stent trials. J Am Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2024;149:e1–e156.
Coll Cardiol Intv. 2020;13:1586–1595. 38. Thomas RJ, Beatty AL, Beckie TM, et al. Home-based cardiac rehabilitation:
19. Lewey J, Choudhry NK. The current state of ethnic and racial disparities in a scientific statement from the American Association of Cardiovascular and
cardiovascular care: lessons from the past and opportunities for the future. Pulmonary Rehabilitation, the American Heart Association, and the Ameri-
Curr Cardiol Rep. 2014;16:530. can College of Cardiology. Circulation. 2019;140:e69–e89.
20. Khraishah H, Daher R, Garelnabi M, et al. Sex, racial, and ethnic dispari- 39. Baran DA, Grines CL, Bailey S, et al. SCAI clinical expert consensus state-
ties in acute coronary syndrome: novel risk factors and recommendations ment on the classification of cardiogenic shock. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv.
for earlier diagnosis to improve outcomes. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2019;94:29–37.
2023;43:1369–1383. 40. Tamis-Holland JE, Jneid H, Reynolds HR, et al. Contemporary diagnosis and
21. Ferry AV, Anand A, Strachan FE, et al. Presenting symptoms in men and management of patients with myocardial infarction in the absence of ob-
women diagnosed with myocardial infarction using sex-specific criteria. J structive coronary artery disease: a scientific statement from the American
Am Heart Assoc. 2019;8:e012307. Heart Association. Circulation. 2019;139:e891–e908.
22. Lichtman JH, Leifheit EC, Safdar B, et al. Sex differences in the presenta- 41. Henry TD, Tomey MI, Tamis-Holland JE, et al. Invasive management of acute
tion and perception of symptoms among young patients with myocardial myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock: a scientific state-
infarction: evidence from the VIRGO study (Variation in Recovery: Role of ment from the American Heart Association. Circulation. 2021;143:e815–
Gender on Outcomes of Young AMI Patients). Circulation. 2018;137:781– e829.
790. 42. Damluji AA, van Diepen S, Katz JN, et al. Mechanical complications of acute
23. van Oosterhout REM, de Boer AR, Maas A, et al. Sex differences in symp- myocardial infarction: a scientific statement from the American Heart As-
tom presentation in acute coronary syndromes: a systematic review and sociation. Circulation. 2021;144:e16–e35.
meta-analysis. J Am Heart Assoc. 2020;9:e014733. 43. Naidu SS, Baran DA, Jentzer JC, et al. SCAI SHOCK stage classification
24. Canto JG, Goldberg RJ, Hand MM, et al. Symptom presentation of expert consensus update: a review and incorporation of validation studies. J
women with acute coronary syndromes: myth vs reality. Arch Intern Med. Am Coll Cardiol. 2022;79:933–946.
2007;167:2405–2413. 44. Levine GN, McEvoy JW, Fang JC, et al. Management of patients at risk for
25. Peters SAE, Colantonio LD, Zhao H, et al. Sex differences in high-intensity and with left ventricular thrombus: a scientific statement from the American
statin use following myocardial infarction in the United States. J Am Coll Heart Association. Circulation. 2022;146:e205–e223.
Cardiol. 2018;71:1729–1737. 45. Tamis-Holland JE, Menon V, Johnson NJ, et al. Cardiac catheterization labo-
26. Koopman C, Vaartjes I, Heintjes EM, et al. Persisting gender differences ratory management of the comatose adult patient with an out-of-hospital
and attenuating age differences in cardiovascular drug use for preven- cardiac arrest: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association.
tion and treatment of coronary heart disease, 1998-2010. Eur Heart J. Circulation. 2024;149:e274–e295.
2013;34:3198–3205.
27. Peters SAE, Muntner P, Woodward M. Sex differences in the prevalence 1.5. Class of Recommendation and Level of Evidence
of, and trends in, cardiovascular risk factors, treatment, and control in the 1. ACCF/AHA Task Force on Practice Guidelines. Methodology Manual and
United States, 2001 to 2016. Circulation. 2019;139:1025–1035. Policies From the ACCF/AHA Task Force on Practice Guidelines. American
28. Sorensen NA, Neumann JT, Ojeda F, et al. Relations of sex to diagnosis and College of Cardiology and American Heart Association. 2010. Accessed
outcomes in acute coronary syndrome. J Am Heart Assoc. 2018;7:e007297. June 3, 2024. https://www.acc.org/-/media/Non-Clinical/Files-PDFs-
29. Sarma AA, Braunwald E, Cannon CP, et al. Outcomes of women compared Excel-MS-Word-etc/Guidelines/About-Guidelines-and-Clinical-
with men after non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes. J Am Documents/Methodology/2014/Methodology-Practice-Guidelines.pd
Coll Cardiol. 2019;74:3013–3022. f?la=en&hash=157B7835091CF7856B26528717BE14B33BE822
30. Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, et al. 2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ 6F and https://professional.heart.org/-/media/phd-files/guidelines-and-
ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guideline on the man- statements/methodology_manual_and_policies_ucm_319826.pdf.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e835
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 66 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
2.1. Definition and Classification of ACS comes in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergo-
1. Libby P. Mechanisms of acute coronary syndromes and their implications for ing primary percutaneous coronary intervention: a report from the ACTION
therapy. N Engl J Med. 2013;368:2004–2013. registry. JACC Cardiovasc Interv. 2018;11:1837–1847.
2. Falk E, Nakano M, Bentzon JF, et al. Update on acute coronary syndromes: 10. Gulati M, Levy PD, Mukherjee D, et al. 2021 AHA/ACC/ASE/CHEST/
the pathologists’ view. Eur Heart J. 2013;34:719–728. SAEM/SCCT/SCMR guideline for the evaluation and diagnosis of chest
3. Bhatt DL, Lopes RD, Harrington RA. Diagnosis and treatment of acute pain: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart
coronary syndromes: a review. JAMA. 2022;327:662–675. Association Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation.
4. Thygesen K, Alpert JS, Jaffe AS, et al. Fourth universal definition of myocar- 2021;144:e368–e454.
dial infarction (2018). J Am Coll Cardiol. 2018;72:2231–2264. 11. Jollis JG, Al-Khalidi HR, Roettig ML, et al. Impact of regionalization of ST-
5. Gulati M, Levy PD, Mukherjee D, et al. 2021 AHA/ACC/ASE/CHEST/ segment-elevation myocardial infarction care on treatment times and out-
SAEM/SCCT/SCMR guideline for the evaluation and diagnosis of chest comes for emergency medical services: transported patients presenting to
pain: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart hospitals with percutaneous coronary intervention: Mission: Lifeline Accel-
Association Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation. erator-2. Circulation. 2018;137:376–387.
2021;144:e368–e454. 12. Mathews R, Peterson ED, Li S, et al. Use of emergency medical service
6. Hayes SN, Kim ESH, Saw J, et al. Spontaneous coronary artery dissection: transport among patients with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction:
current state of the science: a scientific statement from the American Heart findings from the National Cardiovascular Data Registry Acute Coronary
Association. Circulation. 2018;137:e523–e557. Treatment Intervention Outcomes Network Registry-Get With The Guide-
7. Tamis-Holland JE, Jneid H, Reynolds HR, et al. Contemporary diagnosis and lines. Circulation. 2011;124:154–163.
management of patients with myocardial infarction in the absence of ob- 13. Becker L, Larsen MP, Eisenberg MS. Incidence of cardiac arrest during self-
structive coronary artery disease: a scientific statement from the American transport for chest pain. Ann Emerg Med. 1996;28:612–616.
Heart Association. Circulation. 2019;139:e891–e908. 14. Herlitz J, Hansson E, Ringvall E, et al. Predicting a life-threatening disease
8. DeFilippis AP, Chapman AR, Mills NL, et al. Assessment and treatment of and death among ambulance-transported patients with chest pain or other
patients with type 2 myocardial infarction and acute nonischemic myocar- symptoms raising suspicion of an acute coronary syndrome. Am J Emerg
dial injury. Circulation. 2019;140:1661–1678. Med. 2002;20:588–594.
9. Jernberg T, Hasvold P, Henriksson M, et al. Cardiovascular risk in post- 15. Rosell-Ortiz F, Mellado-Vergel FJ, Fernandez-Valle P, et al. Initial complica-
myocardial infarction patients: nationwide real world data demonstrate the tions and factors related to prehospital mortality in acute myocardial infarc-
importance of a long-term perspective. Eur Heart J. 2015;36:1163–1170. tion with ST segment elevation. Emerg Med J. 2015;32:559–563.
10. Virani SS, Newby LK, Arnold SV, et al. 2023 AHA/ACC/ACCP/ASPC/ 16. Le May MR, So DY, Dionne R, et al. A citywide protocol for primary PCI in
NLA/PCNA guideline for the management of patients with chronic coro- ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2008;358:231–
nary disease: a report of the American Heart Association/American College 240.
of Cardiology Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 17. Tanaka A, Matsuo K, Kikuchi M, et al. Systematic review and meta-anal-
2023;148:e9–e119. ysis of diagnostic accuracy to identify ST-segment elevation myocardial
11. Kontos MC, de Lemos JA, Deitelzweig SB, et al. 2022 ACC expert consen- infarction on interpretations of prehospital electrocardiograms. Circ Rep.
sus decision pathway on the evaluation and disposition of acute chest pain 2022;4:289–297.
in the emergency department: a report of the American College of Cardiol- 18. Keeley E, Boura, JA, Grines, CL. Primary angioplasty versus intravenous
ogy Solution Set Oversight Committee. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2022;80:1925– thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction: a quantitative review of
1960. 23 randomised trials. Lancet 2003;361:13–20.
12. Wang K, Asinger RW, Marriott HJ. ST-segment elevation in conditions other 19. De Luca G, Suryapranata H, Ottervanger JP, Antman EM. Time delay to
than acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med 2003;349:2128–2135. treatment and mortality in primary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarc-
13. Birnbaum Y, Ye Y, Smith SW, Jneid H. Rapid diagnosis of stemi equivalent tion: every minute of delay counts. Circulation. 2004;109:1223–1225.
in patients with left bundle-branch block: Is it feasible? J Am Heart Assoc 20. McNamara RL, Wang Y, Herrin J, et al. Effect of door-to-balloon time on
2021;10:e023275. mortality in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. J Am
Coll Cardiol. 2006;47:2180–2186.
3.1.1. Prehospital Assessment and Management Consid- 21. De Luca G, Biondi-Zoccai G, Marino P. Transferring patients with ST-seg-
erations for Suspected ACS ment elevation myocardial infarction for mechanical reperfusion: a meta-re-
1. Nakashima T, Hashiba K, Kikuchi M, et al. Impact of prehospital 12-lead gression analysis of randomized trials. Ann Emerg Med. 2008;52:665–676.
electrocardiography and destination hospital notification on mortality in pa- 22. Andersen HR, Nielsen TT, Rasmussen K, et al. A comparison of coronary
tients with chest pain- a systematic review. Circ Rep. 2022;4:187–193. angioplasty with fibrinolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J
2. Quinn T, Johnsen S, Gale CP, et al. Effects of prehospital 12-lead ECG Med. 2003;349:733–742.
on processes of care and mortality in acute coronary syndrome: a linked 23. Widimsky P, Budesinsky T, Vorac D, et al. Long distance transport for primary
cohort study from the Myocardial Ischaemia National Audit Project. Heart. angioplasty vs immediate thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction. Final
2014;100:944–950. results of the randomized national multicentre trial PRAGUE-2. Eur Heart J.
3. Verbeek PR, Ryan D, Turner L, Craig AM. Serial prehospital 12-lead elec- 2003;24:94–104.
trocardiograms increase identification of ST-segment elevation myocardial 24. Fordyce CB, Al-Khalidi HR, Jollis JG, et al. Association of rapid care process
infarction. Prehosp Emerg Care. 2012;16:109–114. implementation on reperfusion times across multiple ST-segment-elevation
4. Tanguay A, Lebon J, Lau L, et al. Detection of STEMI using prehospital serial myocardial infarction networks. Circ Cardiovasc Interv. 2017;10:e004061.
12-lead electrocardiograms. Prehosp Emerg Care. 2018;22:419–426. 25. Savage ML, Poon KK, Johnston EM, et al. Pre-hospital ambulance notifica-
5. Rokos IC, French WJ, Koenig WJ, et al. Integration of pre-hospital electro- tion and initiation of treatment of ST elevation myocardial infarction is as-
cardiograms and ST-elevation myocardial infarction receiving center (SRC) sociated with significant reduction in door-to-balloon time for primary PCI.
networks: impact on door-to-balloon times across 10 independent regions. Heart Lung Circ. 2014;23:435–443.
J Am Coll Cardiol Intv. 2009;2:339–346.
3.1.2. Initial In-Hospital Assessment of Patients With
6. Sorensen JT, Terkelsen CJ, Norgaard BL, et al. Urban and rural implementa-
tion of pre-hospital diagnosis and direct referral for primary percutaneous Confirmed or Suspected ACS
coronary intervention in patients with acute ST-elevation myocardial infarc- 1. Diercks DB, Peacock WF, Hiestand BC, et al. Frequency and consequences
tion. Eur Heart J. 2011;32:430–436. of recording an electrocardiogram >10 minutes after arrival in an emer-
7. Le May MR, Wells GA, So DY, et al. Reduction in mortality as a result of gency room in non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes (from
direct transport from the field to a receiving center for primary percutaneous the CRUSADE Initiative). Am J Cardiol. 2006;97:437–442.
coronary intervention. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2012;60:1223–1230. 2. Diercks DB, Kontos MC, Chen AY, et al. Utilization and impact of pre-
8. Nam J, Caners K, Bowen JM, et al. Systematic review and meta-analysis hospital electrocardiograms for patients with acute ST-segment elevation
of the benefits of out-of-hospital 12-lead ECG and advance notification myocardial infarction: data from the NCDR (National Cardiovascular Data
in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction patients. Ann Emerg Med. Registry) ACTION (Acute Coronary Treatment and Intervention Outcomes
2014;64:176-186, 186.e171–179. Network) Registry. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2009;53:161–166.
9. Shavadia JS, Roe MT, Chen AY, et al. Association between cardiac cath- 3. Riley RF, Newby LK, Don CW, et al. Diagnostic time course, treatment, and
eterization laboratory pre-activation and reperfusion timing metrics and out- in-hospital outcomes for patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial
e836 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 67 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
infarction presenting with nondiagnostic initial electrocardiogram: a report gency department patients with possible acute coronary syndrome. J Am
from the American Heart Association Mission: Lifeline program. Am Heart J. Coll Cardiol. 2013;62:1242–1249.
2013;165:50–56. 26. Twerenbold R, Badertscher P, Boeddinghaus J, et al. Effect of the FDA
4. Lipinski MJ, Baker NC, Escarcega RO, et al. Comparison of conventional regulatory approach on the 0/1-h algorithm for rapid diagnosis of MI. J Am
and high-sensitivity troponin in patients with chest pain: a collaborative Coll Cardiol. 2017;70:1532–1534.
meta-analysis. Am Heart J. 2015;169:6–16.e16. 27. Chiang CH, Chiang CH, Lee GH, et al. Safety and efficacy of the European
5. Anand A, Lee KK, Chapman AR, et al. High-sensitivity cardiac troponin on Society of Cardiology 0/1-hour algorithm for diagnosis of myocardial infarc-
presentation to rule out myocardial infarction: a stepped-wedge cluster ran- tion: systematic review and meta-analysis. Heart. 2020;106:985–991.
domized controlled trial. Circulation. 2021;143:2214–2224. 28. Reichlin T, Schindler C, Drexler B, et al. One-hour rule-out and rule-in of
6. Shah ASV, Anand A, Strachan FE, et al. High-sensitivity troponin in the acute myocardial infarction using high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T. Arch
evaluation of patients with suspected acute coronary syndrome: a stepped- Intern Med. 2012;172:1211–1218.
wedge, cluster-randomised controlled trial. Lancet. 2018;392:919–928. 29. Allen BR, Christenson RH, Cohen SA, et al. Diagnostic performance of high-
7. Reichlin T, Hochholzer W, Bassetti S, et al. Early diagnosis of myocar- sensitivity cardiac troponin T strategies and clinical variables in a multisite
dial infarction with sensitive cardiac troponin assays. N Engl J Med. US cohort. Circulation. 2021;143:1659–1672.
2009;361:858–867. 30. Karady J, Morrow DA. Critical appraisal of the negative predictive perfor-
8. Chew DP, Lambrakis K, Blyth A, et al. A randomized trial of a 1-hour tro- mance of the European Society of Cardiology 0/1-hour algorithm for evalu-
ponin T protocol in suspected acute coronary syndromes: the Rapid As- ating patients with chest pain in the US. JAMA Cardiol. 2023;8:314–316.
sessment of Possible Acute Coronary Syndrome in the Emergency De- 31. Keller T, Zeller T, Peetz D, et al. Sensitive troponin I assay in early diagnosis
partment With High-Sensitivity Troponin T Study (RAPID-TnT). Circulation. of acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2009;361:868–877.
2019;140:1543–1556. 32. Sandoval Y, Apple FS, Mahler SA, et al. High-sensitivity cardiac troponin
9. Neumann JT, Sorensen NA, Rubsamen N, et al. Evaluation of a new ultra- and the 2021 AHA/ACC/ASE/CHEST/SAEM/SCCT/SCMR guide-
sensitivity troponin I assay in patients with suspected myocardial infarction. lines for the evaluation and diagnosis of acute chest pain. Circulation.
Int J Cardiol. 2019;283:35–40. 2022;146:569–581.
10. Boeddinghaus J, Nestelberger T, Twerenbold R, et al. Direct comparison of
3.1.3. Risk Stratification Tools for Patients With STEMI
4 very early rule-out strategies for acute myocardial infarction using high-
sensitivity cardiac troponin I. Circulation. 2017;135:1597–1611. and NSTE-ACS
11. Twerenbold R, Costabel JP, Nestelberger T, et al. Outcome of applying the 1. Brilakis ES, Wright RS, Kopecky SL, et al. Association of the PURSUIT
ESC 0/1-hour algorithm in patients with suspected myocardial infarction. J risk score with predischarge ejection fraction, angiographic severity of
Am Coll Cardiol. 2019;74:483–494. coronary artery disease, and mortality in a nonselected, community-based
12. Badertscher P, Boeddinghaus J, Twerenbold R, et al. Direct comparison of population with non-ST-elevation acute myocardial infarction. Am Heart J.
the 0/1h and 0/3h algorithms for early rule-out of acute myocardial infarc- 2003;146:811–818.
tion. Circulation. 2018;137:2536–2538. 2. Backus BE, Six AJ, Kelder JH, et al. Risk scores for patients with chest pain:
13. Gulati M, Levy PD, Mukherjee D, et al. 2021 AHA/ACC/ASE/CHEST/ evaluation in the emergency department. Curr Cardiol Rev. 2011;7:2–8.
SAEM/SCCT/SCMR guideline for the evaluation and diagnosis of chest 3. Gale CP, Manda SO, Weston CF, et al. Evaluation of risk scores for risk
pain: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart stratification of acute coronary syndromes in the Myocardial Infarction Na-
Association Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation. tional Audit Project (MINAP) database. Heart. 2009;95:221–227.
2021;144:e368–e454. 4. Antman EM, Cohen M, Bernink PJ, et al. The TIMI risk score for unstable
14. National Center for Health Statistics. Emergency Department Visits in the angina/non-ST elevation MI: a method for prognostication and therapeutic
United States, 2016-2021. Accessed August 6, 2023. https://www.cdc. decision making. JAMA. 2000;284:835–842.
gov/nchs/dhcs/ed-visits/index.htm. 5. Morrow DA, Antman EM, Charlesworth A, et al. TIMI risk score for ST-el-
15. Thygesen K, Alpert JS, Jaffe AS, et al. Fourth universal definition of myocar- evation myocardial infarction: a convenient, bedside, clinical score for risk
dial infarction (2018). Eur Heart J. 2019;40:237–269. assessment at presentation: an intravenous nPA for treatment of infarcting
16. Mahler SA, Riley RF, Hiestand BC, et al. The HEART Pathway randomized myocardium early II trial substudy. Circulation. 2000;102:2031–2037.
trial: identifying emergency department patients with acute chest pain for 6. Fox KA, Dabbous OH, Goldberg RJ, et al. Prediction of risk of death and
early discharge. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2015;8:195–203. myocardial infarction in the six months after presentation with acute coro-
17. Than MP, Pickering JW, Aldous SJ, et al. Effectiveness of EDACS ver- nary syndrome: prospective multinational observational study (GRACE).
sus ADAPT accelerated diagnostic pathways for chest pain: a pragmatic BMJ. 2006;333:1091.
randomized controlled trial embedded within practice. Ann Emerg Med. 7. Fox KA, Fitzgerald G, Puymirat E, et al. Should patients with acute coronary
2016;68:93–102.e101. disease be stratified for management according to their risk? Derivation, ex-
18. Twerenbold R, Neumann JT, Sorensen NA, et al. Prospective validation of ternal validation and outcomes using the updated GRACE risk score. BMJ
the 0/1-h Algorithm for early diagnosis of myocardial infarction. J Am Coll Open. 2014;4:e004425.
Cardiol. 2018;72:620–632. 8. Chew DP, Junbo G, Parsonage W, et al. Perceived risk of ischemic and
19. Mark DG, Huang J, Chettipally U, et al. Performance of coronary risk scores bleeding events in acute coronary syndromes. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Out-
among patients with chest pain in the emergency department. J Am Coll comes. 2013;6:299–308.
Cardiol. 2018;71:606–616. 9. Chew DP, Hyun K, Morton E, et al. Objective risk assessment vs standard
20. Puymirat E, Simon T, Steg PG, et al. Association of changes in clinical char- care for acute coronary syndromes: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA Cardiol.
acteristics and management with improvement in survival among patients 2021;6:304–313.
with ST-elevation myocardial infarction. JAMA. 2012;308:998–1006. 10. Gale CP, Stocken DD, Aktaa S, et al. Effectiveness of GRACE risk score
21. Thygesen K, Alpert JS, Jaffe AS, et al. Fourth universal definition of myocar- in patients admitted to hospital with non-ST elevation acute coronary syn-
dial infarction (2018). Circulation. 2018;138:e618–e651. drome (UKGRIS): parallel group cluster randomised controlled trial. BMJ.
22. Lopez-Sendon J, Coma-Canella I, Alcasena S, et al. Electrocardiographic 2023;381:e073843.
findings in acute right ventricular infarction: sensitivity and specificity of 11. Killip TIII, Kimball JT. Treatment of myocardial infarction in a coronary care
electrocardiographic alterations in right precordial leads V4R, V3R, V1, V2, unit. A two year experience with 250 patients. Am J Cardiol. 1967;20:457–
and V3. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1985;6:1273–1279. 464.
23. Apple FS, Wu AH, Jaffe AS, et al. National Academy of Clinical Biochemistry 12. Araujo GN, Silveira AD, Scolari FL, et al. Admission bedside lung ultrasound
and IFCC Committee for Standardization of Markers of Cardiac Damage reclassifies mortality prediction in patients with ST-segment-elevation myo-
Laboratory Medicine practice guidelines: analytical issues for biomarkers of cardial infarction. Circ Cardiovasc Imaging. 2020;13:e010269.
heart failure. Circulation. 2007;116:e95–e98. 13. Lindner M, Lindsey A, Bain PA, et al. Prevalence and prognostic importance
24. Morrow DA, Cannon CP, Jesse RL, et al. National Academy of Clinical Bio- of lung ultrasound findings in acute coronary syndrome: a systematic review.
chemistry Laboratory Medicine practice guidelines: clinical characteristics Echocardiography. 2021;38:2069–2076.
and utilization of biochemical markers in acute coronary syndromes. Circula- 14. van Diepen S, Chen AY, Wang TY, et al. Influence of heart failure symp-
tion. 2007;115:e356–e375. toms and ejection fraction on short- and long-term outcomes for older
25. Cullen L, Mueller C, Parsonage WA, et al. Validation of high-sensitivity tro- patients with non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. Am Heart J.
ponin I in a 2-hour diagnostic strategy to assess 30-day outcomes in emer- 2014;167:267–273.e261.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e837
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 68 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
15. Lewis EF, Velazquez EJ, Solomon SD, et al. Predictors of the first heart 14. Lemkes JS, Janssens GN, van der Hoeven NW, et al. Coronary angiog-
failure hospitalization in patients who are stable survivors of myocardial in- raphy after cardiac arrest without ST-segment elevation. N Engl J Med.
farction complicated by pulmonary congestion and/or left ventricular dys- 2019;380:1397–1407.
function: a VALIANT study. Eur Heart J. 2008;29:748–756. 15. Kragholm K, Lu D, Chiswell K, et al. Improvement in care and outcomes for
16. Neumann JT, Twerenbold R, Ojeda F, et al. Application of High-sensitivity tro- emergency medical service-transported patients with ST-elevation myocar-
ponin in suspected myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2019;380:2529– dial infarction (STEMI) with and without prehospital cardiac arrest: a Mis-
2540. sion: Lifeline STEMI Accelerator study. J Am Heart Assoc. 2017;6:e005717.
17. Aviles RJ, Askari AT, Lindahl B, et al. Troponin T levels in patients with 16. Myat A, Song KJ, Rea T. Out-of-hospital cardiac arrest: current concepts.
acute coronary syndromes, with or without renal dysfunction. N Engl J Med. Lancet. 2018;391:970–979.
2002;346:2047–2052. 17. Kern KB, Lotun K, Patel N, et al. Outcomes of comatose cardiac ar-
18. Morrow DA, Cannon CP, Rifai N, et al. Ability of minor elevations of troponins rest survivors with and without ST-segment elevation myocardial in-
I and T to predict benefit from an early invasive strategy in patients with farction: importance of coronary angiography. J Am Coll Cardiol Intv.
unstable angina and non-ST elevation myocardial infarction: results from a 2015;8:1031–1040.
randomized trial. JAMA. 2001;286:2405–2412. 18. Henry TD, Tomey MI, Tamis-Holland JE, et al. Invasive management of acute
19. Scirica BM, Sabatine MS, Jarolim P, et al. Assessment of multiple cardiac myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock: a scientific state-
biomarkers in non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes: obser- ment from the American Heart Association. Circulation. 2021;143:e815–
vations from the MERLIN-TIMI 36 trial. Eur Heart J. 2011;32:697–705. e829.
20. Jering KS, Claggett BL, Pfeffer MA, et al. Prognostic importance of NT-proB- 19. Tamis-Holland JE, Menon V, Johnson NJ, et al. Cardiac catheterization labo-
NP (N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide) following high-risk myocar- ratory management of the comatose adult patient with an out-of-hospital
dial infarction in the PARADISE-MI trial. Circ Heart Fail. 2023;16:e010259. cardiac arrest: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association.
21. Rab T, Ratanapo S, Kern KB, et al. Cardiac shock care centers: JACC review Circulation. 2024;149:e274–e295.
topic of the week. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2018;72:1972–1980. 20. Patterson T, Perkins GD, Perkins A, et al. Expedited transfer to a cardiac
22. Henry TD, Tomey MI, Tamis-Holland JE, et al. Invasive management of acute arrest centre for non-ST-elevation out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (ARREST):
myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock: a scientific state- a UK prospective, multicentre, parallel, randomised clinical trial. Lancet.
ment from the American Heart Association. Circulation. 2021;143:e815– 2023;402:1329–1337.
e829. 21. Adrie C, Cariou A, Mourvillier B, et al. Predicting survival with good neurolog-
23. Naidu SS, Baran DA, Jentzer JC, et al. SCAI SHOCK stage classification ical recovery at hospital admission after successful resuscitation of out-of-
expert consensus update: a review and incorporation of validation studies. J hospital cardiac arrest: the OHCA score. Eur Heart J. 2006;27:2840–2845.
Am Coll Cardiol. 2022;79:933–946. 22. Gue YX, Sayers M, Whitby BT, et al. Usefulness of the NULL-PLEASE score
to predict survival in Out-of-Hospital Cardiac Arrest (OCHA). Am J Med.
3.2. Management of Patients Presenting With Cardiac 2020;133:1328–1335.
Arrest 23. Nishikimi M, Ogura T, Nishida K, et al. External validation of a risk clas-
1. Wnent J, Seewald S, Heringlake M, et al. Choice of hospital after out-of- sification at the emergency department of post-cardiac arrest syndrome
hospital cardiac arrest-a decision with far-reaching consequences: a study patients undergoing targeted temperature management. Resuscitation.
in a large German city. Crit Care. 2012;16:R164. 2019;140:135–141.
2. Kragholm K, Malta Hansen C, Dupre ME, et al. Direct transport to a percu- 24. Martinell L, Nielsen N, Herlitz J, et al. Early predictors of poor outcome after
taneous cardiac intervention center and outcomes in patients with out-of- out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. Crit Care. 2017;21:96.
hospital cardiac arrest. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2017;10:e003414. 25. Rab T, Kern KB, Tamis-Holland JE, et al. Cardiac arrest. J Am Coll Cardiol.
3. Gorjup V, Radsel P, Kocjancic ST, et al. Acute ST-elevation myocardial in- 2015;66:62–73.
farction after successful cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Resuscitation. 26. Harhash AA, May TL, Hsu C-H, et al. Risk stratification among survivors
2007;72:379–385. of cardiac arrest considered for coronary angiography. J Am Coll Cardiol.
4. Pareek N, Beckley-Hoelscher N, Kanyal R, et al. MIRACLE(2) score and 2021;77:360–371.
SCAI grade to identify patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest for im- 27. Maupain C, Bougouin W, Lamhaut L, et al. The CAHP (Cardiac Arrest Hos-
mediate coronary angiography. J Am Coll Cardiol Intv. 2022;15:1074–1084. pital Prognosis) score: a tool for risk stratification after out-of-hospital car-
5. Garot P, Lefevre T, Eltchaninoff H, et al. Six-month outcome of emer- diac arrest. Eur Heart J. 2015;37:3222–3228.
gency percutaneous coronary intervention in resuscitated patients after 28. Bougouin W, Dumas F, Karam N, et al. Should we perform an immediate
cardiac arrest complicating ST-elevation myocardial infarction. Circulation. coronary angiogram in all patients after cardiac arrest? J Am Coll Cardiol
2007;115:1354–1362. Intv. 2018;11:249–256.
6. Hosmane VR, Mustafa NG, Reddy VK, et al. Survival and neurologic recov- 29. Lotfi A, Klein LW, Hira RS, et al. SCAI expert consensus statement on out of
ery in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction resuscitated hospital cardiac arrest. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. 2020;96:844–861.
from cardiac arrest. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2009;53:409–415. 30. Byrne RA, Rossello X, Coughlan JJ, et al. 2023 ESC guidelines for the man-
7. Bougouin W, Dumas F, Karam N, et al. Should we perform an immediate agement of acute coronary syndromes. Eur Heart J. 2023;44:3720–3826.
coronary angiogram in all patients after cardiac arrest?: Insights from a large 31. Bavishi C, Trivedi V, Bhatt DL. Meta-analysis of early versus delayed or se-
French registry. J Am Coll Cardiol Intv. 2018;11:249–256. lective coronary angiography in patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest
8. Lemkes JS, Janssens GN, van der Hoeven NW, et al. Coronary angiography without ST-elevation myocardial infarction. Am J Cardiol. 2022;175:180–
after cardiac arrest without ST segment elevation: one-year outcomes of 182.
the COACT randomized clinical trial. JAMA Cardiol. 2020;5:1358–1365.
9. Kern KB, Radsel P, Jentzer JC, et al. Randomized pilot clinical trial of early 4.1. Oxygen Therapy
coronary angiography versus no early coronary angiography after car- 1. Sukumalchantra Y, Levy S, Danzig R, et al. Correcting arterial hypoxemia
diac arrest without ST-segment elevation: the PEARL study. Circulation. by oxygen therapy in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Effect on
2020;142:2002–2012. ventilation and hemodynamics. Am J Cardiol. 1969;24:838–852.
10. Desch S, Freund A, Akin I, et al. Angiography after out-of-hospital cardi- 2. Hofmann R, James SK, Jernberg T, et al. Oxygen therapy in suspected
ac arrest without ST-segment elevation. N Engl J Med. 2021;385:2544– acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2017;377:1240–1249.
2553. 3. Stub D, Smith K, Bernard S, et al. Air versus oxygen in ST-segment-elevation
11. Hauw-Berlemont C, Lamhaut L, Diehl J-L, et al. Emergency vs delayed myocardial infarction. Circulation. 2015;131:2143–2150.
coronary angiogram in survivors of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest: results 4. Khoshnood A, Carlsson M, Akbarzadeh M, et al. Effect of oxygen therapy
of the randomized, multicentric EMERGE trial. JAMA Cardiol. 2022;7:700– on myocardial salvage in ST elevation myocardial infarction: the randomized
707. SOCCER trial. Eur J Emerg Med. 2018;25:78–84.
12. Elfwen L, Lagedal R, Nordberg P, et al. Direct or subacute coronary angi- 5. Beasley R, Aldington S, Weatherall M, et al. Oxygen therapy in myocardial
ography in out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (DISCO)-An initial pilot-study of a infarction: an historical perspective. J R Soc Med. 2007;100:130–133.
randomized clinical trial. Resuscitation. 2019;139:253–261. 6. Stewart RAH, Jones P, Dicker B, et al. High flow oxygen and risk of mortality
13. Viana-Tejedor A, Andrea-Riba R, Scardino C, et al. Coronary angiography in patients with a suspected acute coronary syndrome: pragmatic, cluster
in patients without ST-segment elevation following out-of-hospital cardiac randomised, crossover trial. BMJ (Clinical research ed). 2021;372:n355–
arrest. COUPE clinical trial. Rev Esp Cardiol (Engl Ed). 2023;76:94–102. n355.
e838 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 69 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
7. Chu DK, Kim LH, Young PJ, et al. Mortality and morbidity in acutely ill adults 18. Hippisley-Cox J, Coupland C. Risk of myocardial infarction in patients
treated with liberal versus conservative oxygen therapy (IOTA): a systematic taking cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors or conventional non-steroidal anti-
review and meta-analysis. Lancet. 2018;391:1693–1705. inflammatory drugs: population based nested case-control analysis. BMJ.
8. Yu Y, Wang J, Wang Q, et al. Admission oxygen saturation and all-cause 2005;330:1366.
in-hospital mortality in acute myocardial infarction patients: data from the 19. Antman EM, Bennett JS, Daugherty A, et al. Use of nonsteroidal antiin-
MIMIC-III database. Ann Transl Med. 2020;8:1371. flammatory drugs: an update for clinicians: a scientific statement from the
9. Hofmann R, Witt N, Lagerqvist B, et al. Oxygen therapy in ST-elevation myo- American Heart Association. Circulation. 2007;115:1634–1642.
cardial infarction. Eur Heart J. 2018;39:2730–2739. 20. Doucet S, Malekianpour M, Theroux P, et al. Randomized trial compar-
10. James SK, Erlinge D, Herlitz J, et al. Effect of oxygen therapy on cardiovas- ing intravenous nitroglycerin and heparin for treatment of unstable an-
cular outcomes in relation to baseline oxygen saturation. J Am Coll Cardiol gina secondary to restenosis after coronary artery angioplasty. Circulation.
Intv. 2020;13:502–513. 2000;101:955–961.
21. Karlberg KE, Saldeen T, Wallin R, et al. Intravenous nitroglycerin reduces
4.2. Analgesics ischaemia in unstable angina pectoris: a double-blind placebo-controlled
1. GISSI-3: effects of lisinopril and transdermal glyceryl trinitrate singly and study. J Intern Med. 1998;243:25–31.
together on 6-week mortality and ventricular function after acute myocar- 22. Perez MI, Musini VM, Wright JM. Effect of early treatment with anti-hyper-
dial infarction. Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Sopravvivenza nell’infarto tensive drugs on short and long-term mortality in patients with an acute
Miocardico. Lancet. 1994;343:1115–1122. cardiovascular event. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2009;CD006743.
2. ISIS-4: a randomised factorial trial assessing early oral captopril, oral mono- 23. Kloner RA, Hutter AM, Emmick JT, et al. Time course of the interaction
nitrate, and intravenous magnesium sulphate in 58 050 patients with sus- between tadalafil and nitrates. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2003;42:1855–1860.
pected acute myocardial infarction. ISIS-4 (Fourth International Study of 24. Parker JD, Bart BA, Webb DJ, et al. Safety of intravenous nitroglycerin after
Infarct Survival) Collaborative Group. Lancet. 1995;345:669–685. administration of sildenafil citrate to men with coronary artery disease: a
3. Shotan A, Brill Z, Matetzky S, et al. Pain scoring-a method for assess- double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, crossover trial. Crit Care Med.
ing acute antianginal therapy comparison of the response to acute 2007;35:1863–1868.
sublingual administration of an isosorbide dinitrate tablet, isosorbide 25. Swearingen D, Nehra A, Morelos S, et al. Hemodynamic effect of avanafil
dinitrate spray and nitroglycerin spray in unstable angina. Cardiology. and glyceryl trinitrate coadministration. Drugs Context. 2013;2013:212248.
1998;89:163–169.
4. Bosson N, Isakson B, Morgan JA, et al. Safety and effectiveness of field 4.3.1. Aspirin
nitroglycerin in patients with suspected ST elevation myocardial infarction. 1. Antithrombotic Trialists Collaboration. Collaborative meta-analysis of ran-
Prehosp Emerg Care. 2019;23:603–611. domised trials of antiplatelet therapy for prevention of death, myocardial
5. Parodi G. Chest pain relief in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Eur infarction, and stroke in high risk patients. BMJ. 2002;324:71–86.
Heart J Acute Cardiovasc Care. 2016;5:277–281. 2. Baigent C, Blackwell L, Collins R, et al. Antithrombotic Trialists Collabora-
6. Meine TJ, Roe MT, Chen AY, et al. Association of intravenous morphine use tion. Aspirin in the primary and secondary prevention of vascular disease:
and outcomes in acute coronary syndromes: results from the CRUSADE collaborative meta-analysis of individual participant data from randomised
Quality Improvement Initiative. Am Heart J. 2005;149:1043–1049. trials. Lancet. 2009;373:1849–1860.
7. Kubica J, Adamski P, Ostrowska M, et al. Morphine delays and attenuates 3. ISIS-2 (Second International Study of Infarct Survival) Collaborative Group.
ticagrelor exposure and action in patients with myocardial infarction: the Randomised trial of intravenous streptokinase, oral aspirin, both, or neither
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled IMPRESSION trial. Eur Heart among 17 187 cases of suspected acute myocardial infarction: ISIS-2. Lan-
J. 2016;37:245–252. cet. 1988;2:349–360.
8. Ibrahim K, Shah R, Goli RR, et al. Fentanyl delays the platelet inhibition ef- 4. Mehta SR, Bassand JP, Chrolavicius S, et al. Current Oasis Investigators.
fects of oral ticagrelor: full report of the PACIFY randomized clinical trial. Dose comparisons of clopidogrel and aspirin in acute coronary syndromes.
Thromb Haemost. 2018;118:1409–1418. N Engl J Med. 2010;363:930–942.
9. Hobl EL, Stimpfl T, Ebner J, et al. Morphine decreases clopidogrel concen- 5. Jones WS, Mulder H, Wruck LM, et al. Comparative effectiveness of aspirin
trations and effects: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. J dosing in cardiovascular disease. N Engl J Med. 2021;384:1981–1990.
Am Coll Cardiol. 2014;63:630–635. 6. Antiplatelet Trialists’ Collaboration. Collaborative overview of randomised
10. Thomas MR, Morton AC, Hossain R, et al. Morphine delays the onset of trials of antiplatelet therapy: prevention of death, myocardial infarction, and
action of prasugrel in patients with prior history of ST-elevation myocardial stroke by prolonged antiplatelet therapy in various categories of patients.
infarction. Thromb Haemost. 2016;116:96–102. BMJ. 1994;308:81–106.
11. Lapostolle F, van’t Hof AW, Hamm CW, et al. Morphine and ticagrelor in- 7. Gollapudi RR, Teirstein PS, Stevenson DD, Simon RA. Aspirin sensitivity: im-
teraction in primary percutaneous coronary intervention in ST-segment el- plications for patients with coronary artery disease. JAMA. 2004;292:3017–
evation myocardial infarction: ATLANTIC-Morphine. Am J Cardiovasc Drugs. 3023.
2019;19:173–183. 8. Cortellini G, Raiteri A, Galli M, et al. Acetylsalicylic acid challenge or desen-
12. Furtado RHM, Nicolau JC, Guo J, et al. Morphine and cardiovascular out- sitization in sensitive patients with cardiovascular disease. J Thromb Throm-
comes among patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syn- bolysis. 2023;55:762–769.
dromes undergoing coronary angiography. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2020;75:289– 9. Chopra AM, Diez-Villanueva P, Cordoba-Soriano JG, et al. Meta-analysis of
300. acetylsalicylic acid desensitization in patients with acute coronary syndrome.
13. Batchelor R, Liu DH, Bloom J, et al. Association of periprocedural intra- Am J Cardiol. 2019;124:14–19.
venous morphine use on clinical outcomes in ST-elevation myocardial 10. Patrono C, Garcia Rodriguez LA, Landolfi R, et al. Low-dose aspirin for the
infarction (STEMI) treated by primary percutaneous coronary interven- prevention of atherothrombosis. N Engl J Med. 2005;353:2373–2383.
tion: systematic review and meta-analysis. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. 11. Mahaffey KW, Wojdyla DM, Carroll K, et al. Ticagrelor compared with clopi-
2020;96:76–88. dogrel by geographic region in the Platelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes
14. Lee SW, Kuo N, Hou SK, et al. Effects of morphine and P2Y inhibitor (PLATO) trial. Circulation. 2011;124:544–554.
amongst patients with acute coronary syndrome: a meta-analysis of com-
parative studies. Am J Emerg Med. 2023;70:119–126. 4.3.2. Oral P2Y12 Inhibitors During Hospitalization
15. Schmidt M, Lamberts M, Olsen AM, et al. Cardiovascular safety of non- 1. Yusuf S, Zhao F, Mehta SR, et al. Effects of clopidogrel in addition to aspirin
aspirin non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: review and position paper by in patients with acute coronary syndromes without ST-segment elevation. N
the working group for Cardiovascular Pharmacotherapy of the European Engl J Med. 2001;345:494–502.
Society of Cardiology. Eur Heart J. 2016;37:1015–1023. 2. Sabatine MS, Cannon CP, Gibson CM, et al. Addition of clopidogrel to aspirin
16. Schjerning Olsen AM, Fosbol EL, Lindhardsen J, et al. Duration of treatment and fibrinolytic therapy for myocardial infarction with ST-segment elevation.
with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and impact on risk of death and N Engl J Med. 2005;352:1179–1189.
recurrent myocardial infarction in patients with prior myocardial infarction: a 3. Chen ZM, Jiang LX, Chen YP, et al. Addition of clopidogrel to aspirin in
nationwide cohort study. Circulation. 2011;123:2226–2235. 45 852 patients with acute myocardial infarction: randomised placebo-con-
17. Gislason GH, Jacobsen S, Rasmussen JN, et al. Risk of death or reinfarc- trolled trial. Lancet. 2005;366:1607–1621.
tion associated with the use of selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors and 4. Wiviott SD, Braunwald E, McCabe CH, et al. Prasugrel versus clopidogrel in
nonselective nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs after acute myocardial patients with acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. 2007;357:2001–
infarction. Circulation. 2006;113:2906–2913. 2015.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e839
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 70 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
5. Wallentin L, Becker RC, Budaj A, et al. Ticagrelor versus clopidogrel in 25. Montalescot G, Van’t Hof AW, Lapostolle F, et al. Prehospital ticagrelor in ST-
patients with acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. 2009;361:1045– segment elevation myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2014;371:1016–
1057. 1027.
6. Cannon CP, Harrington RA, James S, et al. Comparison of ticagrelor 26. Rohla M, Ye SX, Shibutani H, et al. Pretreatment with P2Y(12) inhibitors
with clopidogrel in patients with a planned invasive strategy for acute in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: insights from the Bern-PCI
coronary syndromes (PLATO): a randomised double-blind study. Lancet. registry. JACC Cardiovasc Interv. 2024;17:17–28.
2010;375:283–293. 27. Bellemain-Appaix A, O’Connor SA, Silvain J, et al. Association of clopido-
7. James SK, Roe MT, Cannon CP, et al. Ticagrelor versus clopidogrel in pa- grel pretreatment with mortality, cardiovascular events, and major bleeding
tients with acute coronary syndromes intended for non-invasive manage- among patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention: a system-
ment: substudy from prospective randomised PLATelet inhibition and pa- atic review and meta-analysis. JAMA. 2012;308:2507–2516.
tient Outcomes (PLATO) trial. BMJ. 2011;342:d3527. 28. Berwanger O, Nicolau JC, Carvalho AC, et al. Ticagrelor vs clopidogrel after
8. Mehta SR, Yusuf S, Peters RJ, et al. Effects of pretreatment with clopidogrel fibrinolytic therapy in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction: a ran-
and aspirin followed by long-term therapy in patients undergoing percuta- domized clinical trial. JAMA Cardiol. 2018;3:391–399.
neous coronary intervention: the PCI-CURE study. Lancet. 2001;358:527–
533. 4.3.3. Intravenous P2Y12 Inhibition
9. Montalescot G, Wiviott SD, Braunwald E, et al. Prasugrel compared with 1. Bhatt DL, Lincoff AM, Gibson CM, et al. Intravenous platelet blockade with
clopidogrel in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention for cangrelor during PCI. N Engl J Med. 2009;361:2330–2341.
ST-elevation myocardial infarction (TRITON-TIMI 38): double-blind, ran- 2. Bhatt DL, Stone GW, Mahaffey KW, et al. Effect of platelet inhibition with
domised controlled trial. Lancet. 2009;373:723–731. cangrelor during PCI on ischemic events. N Engl J Med. 2013;368:1303–
10. Steg PG, James S, Harrington RA, et al. Ticagrelor versus clopidogrel in 1313.
patients with ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes intended for reper- 3. Harrington RA, Stone GW, McNulty S, et al. Platelet inhibition with cangrelor
fusion with primary percutaneous coronary intervention: a Platelet Inhibi- in patients undergoing PCI. N Engl J Med. 2009;361:2318–2329.
tion and Patient Outcomes (PLATO) trial subgroup analysis. Circulation. 4. Steg PG, Bhatt DL, Hamm CW, et al. Effect of cangrelor on periprocedural
2010;122:2131–2141. outcomes in percutaneous coronary interventions: a pooled analysis of
11. Sabatine MS, Cannon CP, Gibson CM, et al. Effect of clopidogrel pretreat- patient-level data. Lancet. 2013;382:1981–1992.
ment before percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with ST-eleva- 5. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI
tion myocardial infarction treated with fibrinolytics: the PCI-CLARITY study. guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col-
JAMA. 2005;294:1224–1232. lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical
12. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114.
guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col- 6. Akers WS, Oh JJ, Oestreich JH, et al. Pharmacokinetics and pharmaco-
lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical dynamics of a bolus and infusion of cangrelor: a direct, parenteral P2Y12
Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114. receptor antagonist. J Clin Pharmacol. 2010;50:27–35.
13. Virani SS, Newby LK, Arnold SV, et al. 2023 AHA/ACC/ACCP/ASPC/ 7. Angiolillo DJ, Firstenberg MS, Price MJ, et al. Bridging antiplatelet therapy
NLA/PCNA guideline for the management of patients with chronic coro- with cangrelor in patients undergoing cardiac surgery: a randomized con-
nary disease: a report of the American Heart Association/American College trolled trial. JAMA. 2012;307:265–274.
of Cardiology Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 8. FDA. Cangrelor prescribing information for intravenous use. Accessed
2023;148:e9–e119. October 5, 2023. https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/
14. O’Donoghue M, Wiviott SD. Clopidogrel response variability and future label/2019/204958s002lbl.pdf.
therapies: clopidogrel: does one size fit all? Circulation. 2006;114:e600–
e606. 4.3.4. Intravenous Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa Inhibitors
15. Gurbel PA, Bliden KP, Hiatt BL, O’Connor CM. Clopidogrel for coronary 1. Stone GW, Maehara A, Witzenbichler B, et al. Intracoronary abciximab and
stenting: response variability, drug resistance, and the effect of pretreat- aspiration thrombectomy in patients with large anterior myocardial infarc-
ment platelet reactivity. Circulation. 2003;107:2908–2913. tion: the INFUSE-AMI randomized trial. JAMA. 2012;307:1817–1826.
16. Mega JL, Close SL, Wiviott SD, et al. Cytochrome p-450 polymorphisms and 2. Thiele H, Wohrle J, Hambrecht R, et al. Intracoronary versus intravenous bo-
response to clopidogrel. N Engl J Med. 2009;360:354–362. lus abciximab during primary percutaneous coronary intervention in patients
17. Simon T, Verstuyft C, Mary-Krause M, et al. Genetic determinants of response with acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction: a randomised trial. Lancet.
to clopidogrel and cardiovascular events. N Engl J Med. 2009;360:363– 2012;379:923–931.
375. 3. Stone GW, Grines CL, Cox DA, et al. Comparison of angioplasty with stent-
18. Fox KA, Mehta SR, Peters R, et al. Benefits and risks of the combination ing, with or without abciximab, in acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med.
of clopidogrel and aspirin in patients undergoing surgical revascularization 2002;346:957–966.
for non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome: the Clopidogrel in Unsta- 4. Giugliano RP, White JA, Bode C, et al. Early versus delayed, provisional ep-
ble angina to prevent Recurrent ischemic Events (CURE) Trial. Circulation. tifibatide in acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. 2009;360:2176–
2004;110:1202–1208. 2190.
19. Held C, Asenblad N, Bassand JP, et al. Ticagrelor versus clopidogrel in pa- 5. Kastrati A, Neumann FJ, Schulz S, et al. Abciximab and heparin ver-
tients with acute coronary syndromes undergoing coronary artery bypass sus bivalirudin for non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med.
surgery: results from the PLATO (Platelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes) 2011;365:1980–1989.
trial. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2011;57:672–684. 6. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI
20. Smith PK, Goodnough LT, Levy JH, et al. Mortality benefit with prasugrel in guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col-
the TRITON-TIMI 38 coronary artery bypass grafting cohort: risk-adjusted lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical
retrospective data analysis. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2012;60:388–396. Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114.
21. Zhao Q, Zhu Y, Xu Z, et al. Effect of Ticagrelor Plus Aspirin, Ticagrelor Alone, 7. Zhao XQ, Theroux P, Snapinn SM, Sax FL. Intracoronary thrombus and
or Aspirin Alone on Saphenous Vein Graft Patency 1 Year After Coronary platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor blockade with tirofiban in unstable
Artery Bypass Grafting: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA. 2018;319:1677– angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction. Angiographic results from the
1686. PRISM-PLUS trial (Platelet receptor inhibition for ischemic syndrome man-
22. Schupke S, Neumann FJ, Menichelli M, et al. Ticagrelor or prasugrel in agement in patients limited by unstable signs and symptoms). PRISM-PLUS
patients with acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. 2019;381:1524– Investigators. Circulation. 1999;100:1609–1615.
1534. 8. Ohlmann P, Reydel P, Jacquemin L, et al. Prehospital abciximab in ST-seg-
23. Gimbel M, Qaderdan K, Willemsen L, et al. Clopidogrel versus ticagrelor or ment elevation myocardial infarction: results of the randomized, double-blind
prasugrel in patients aged 70 years or older with non-ST-elevation acute MISTRAL study. Circ Cardiovasc Interv. 2012;5:69.
coronary syndrome (POPular AGE): the randomised, open-label, non-inferi- 9. Bertrand OF, Larose E, Bagur R, et al. A randomized double-blind placebo-
ority trial. Lancet. 2020;395:1374–1381. controlled study comparing intracoronary versus intravenous abciximab
24. Montalescot G, Bolognese L, Dudek D, et al. Pretreatment with prasug- in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction undergoing transradial
rel in non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. rescue percutaneous coronary intervention after failed thrombolysis. Am J
2013;369:999–1010. Cardiol. 2018;122:47–53.
e840 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 71 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
10. Sanati HR, Zahedmehr A, Firouzi A, et al. Intracoronary versus intravenous 20. Stone GW, White HD, Ohman EM, et al. Bivalirudin in patients with acute
eptifibatide during percutaneous coronary intervention for acute ST-seg- coronary syndromes undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention: a
ment elevation myocardial infarction; a randomized controlled trial. Cardio- subgroup analysis from the Acute Catheterization and Urgent Intervention
vasc Interv Ther. 2017;32:351–357. Triage strategy (ACUITY) trial. Lancet. 2007;369:907–919.
11. Kastrati A, Mehilli J, Neumann FJ, et al. Abciximab in patients with acute 21. Kastrati A, Neumann FJ, Schulz S, et al. Abciximab and heparin ver-
coronary syndromes undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention af- sus bivalirudin for non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med.
ter clopidogrel pretreatment: the ISAR-REACT 2 randomized trial. JAMA. 2011;365:1980–1989.
2006;295:1531–1538. 22. Kheiri B, Rao SV, Osman M, et al. Meta-analysis of bivalirudin versus
heparin in transradial coronary interventions. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv.
4.4. Parenteral Anticoagulation 2020;96:1240–1248.
1. Risk of myocardial infarction and death during treatment with low dose as- 23. Bikdeli B, Erlinge D, Valgimigli M, et al. Bivalirudin versus heparin during PCI
pirin and intravenous heparin in men with unstable coronary artery disease. in NSTEMI: individual patient data meta-analysis of large randomized trials.
The RISC Group. Lancet. 1990;336:827–830. Circulation. 2023;148:1207–1219.
2. Cohen M, Adams PC, Parry G, et al. Combination antithrombotic therapy in 24. Montalescot G, Zeymer U, Silvain J, et al. Intravenous enoxaparin or unfrac-
unstable rest angina and non-Q-wave infarction in nonprior aspirin users. tionated heparin in primary percutaneous coronary intervention for ST-ele-
Primary end points analysis from the ATACS trial. Antithrombotic Therapy in vation myocardial infarction: the international randomised open-label ATOLL
Acute Coronary Syndromes Research Group. Circulation. 1994;89:81–88. trial. Lancet. 2011;378:693–703.
3. Oler A, Whooley MA, Oler J, Grady D. Adding heparin to aspirin reduces 25. Collet JP, Huber K, Cohen M, et al. A direct comparison of intravenous
the incidence of myocardial infarction and death in patients with unstable enoxaparin with unfractionated heparin in primary percutaneous coronary
angina. A meta-analysis. JAMA. 1996;276:811–815. intervention (from the ATOLL trial). Am J Cardiol. 2013;112:1367–1372.
4. Theroux P, Ouimet H, McCans J, et al. Aspirin, heparin, or both to treat acute 26. Silvain J, Beygui F, Barthelemy O, et al. Efficacy and safety of enoxaparin
unstable angina. N Engl J Med. 1988;319:1105–1111. versus unfractionated heparin during percutaneous coronary intervention:
5. Yusuf S, Mehta SR, Chrolavicius S, et al. Fifth Organization to Assess systematic review and meta-analysis. BMJ. 2012;344:e553.
Strategies in Acute Ischemic Syndromes Investigators. Comparison of 27. Yusuf S, Mehta SR, Chrolavicius S, et al. Effects of fondaparinux on mortal-
fondaparinux and enoxaparin in acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. ity and reinfarction in patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial
2006;354:1464–1476. infarction: the OASIS-6 randomized trial. JAMA. 2006;295:1519–1530.
6. Steg PG, Jolly SS, Mehta SR, et al. Futura Oasis Trial Group. Low-dose vs 28. Ross AM, Molhoek P, Lundergan C, et al. Randomized comparison of enoxa-
standard-dose unfractionated heparin for percutaneous coronary interven- parin, a low-molecular-weight heparin, with unfractionated heparin adjunc-
tion in acute coronary syndromes treated with fondaparinux: the FUTURA/ tive to recombinant tissue plasminogen activator thrombolysis and aspirin:
OASIS-8 randomized trial. JAMA. 2010;304:1339–1349. second trial of Heparin and Aspirin Reperfusion Therapy (HART II). Circula-
7. Murphy SA, Gibson CM, Morrow DA, et al. Efficacy and safety of the low- tion. 2001;104:648–652.
molecular weight heparin enoxaparin compared with unfractionated heparin 29. Efficacy and safety of tenecteplase in combination with enoxaparin, abcix-
across the acute coronary syndrome spectrum: a meta-analysis. Eur Heart imab, or unfractionated heparin: the ASSENT-3 randomised trial in acute
J. 2007;28:2077–2086. myocardial infarction. Lancet. 2001;358:605–613.
8. Ferguson JJ, Califf RM, Antman EM, et al. Enoxaparin vs unfractionated 30. Peters RJ, Joyner C, Bassand JP, et al. The role of fondaparinux as an
heparin in high-risk patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary adjunct to thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction: a subgroup
syndromes managed with an intended early invasive strategy: primary re- analysis of the OASIS-6 trial. Eur Heart J. 2008;29:324–331.
sults of the SYNERGY randomized trial. JAMA. 2004;292:45–54. 31. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI
9. Antman EM, Louwerenburg HW, Baars HF, et al. Enoxaparin as adjunctive guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col-
antithrombin therapy for ST-elevation myocardial infarction: results of the lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical
ENTIRE-Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) 23 Trial. Circulation. Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114.
2002;105:1642–1649. 32. Thygesen K, Alpert JS, Jaffe AS, et al. Fourth universal definition of myocar-
10. Antman EM, Morrow DA, McCabe CH, et al. Enoxaparin versus unfraction- dial infarction (2018). Circulation. 2018;138:e618–e651.
ated heparin with fibrinolysis for ST-elevation myocardial infarction. N Engl J 33. Zeymer U, Rao SV, Montalescot G. Anticoagulation in coronary intervention.
Med. 2006;354:1477–1488. Eur Heart J. 2016;37:3376–3385.
11. Cohen M, Demers C, Gurfinkel EP, et al. A comparison of low-molecular- 34. Mahaffey KW, Lewis BE, Wildermann NM, et al. The anticoagulant therapy
weight heparin with unfractionated heparin for unstable coronary artery with bivalirudin to assist in the performance of percutaneous coronary inter-
disease. Efficacy and Safety of Subcutaneous Enoxaparin in Non-Q-Wave vention in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (ATBAT) study:
Coronary Events Study Group. N Engl J Med. 1997;337:447–452. main results. J Invasive Cardiol. 2003;15:611–616.
12. Granger CB, Miller JM, Bovill EG, et al. Rebound increase in thrombin gen- 35. Lewis BE, Matthai WH Jr, Cohen M, et al. Argatroban anticoagulation during
eration and activity after cessation of intravenous heparin in patients with percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with heparin-induced throm-
acute coronary syndromes. Circulation. 1995;91:1929–1935. bocytopenia. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. 2002;57:177–184.
13. Bahit MC, Topol EJ, Califf RM, et al. Reactivation of ischemic events in acute 36. Eikelboom JW, Anand SS, Malmberg K, et al. Unfractionated heparin and
coronary syndromes: results from GUSTO-IIb. Gobal Use of Strategies To low-molecular-weight heparin in acute coronary syndrome without ST el-
Open occluded arteries in acute coronary syndromes. J Am Coll Cardiol. evation: a meta-analysis. Lancet. 2000;355:1936–1942.
2001;37:1001–1007. 37. Ducrocq G, Jolly S, Mehta SR, et al. Activated clotting time and outcomes
14. Stone GW, Witzenbichler B, Guagliumi G, et al. Bivalirudin during primary PCI during percutaneous coronary intervention for non-ST-segment-elevation
in acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2008;358:2218–2230. myocardial infarction: insights from the FUTURA/OASIS-8 Trial. Circ Car-
15. Li Y, Liang Z, Qin L, et al. Bivalirudin plus a high-dose infusion versus hepa- diovasc Interv. 2015;8:e002044.
rin monotherapy in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction 38. James S, Koul S, Andersson J, et al. Bivalirudin versus heparin monother-
undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention: a randomised trial. apy in ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction. Circ Cardiovasc Interv.
Lancet. 2022;400:1847–1857. 2021;14:e008969.
16. Cavender MA, Sabatine MS. Bivalirudin versus heparin in patients planned 39. Wang ZD, Chen YX, Liu M, et al. Safety of bivalirudin combined with ticagrelor
for percutaneous coronary intervention: a meta-analysis of randomised con- in the emergency PCI in patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocar-
trolled trials. Lancet. 2014;384:599–606. dial infarction. Clin Appl Thromb Hemost. 2022;28:10760296221077973.
17. Bangalore S, Toklu B, Kotwal A, et al. Anticoagulant therapy during primary 40. Navarese EP, Schulze V, Andreotti F, et al. Comprehensive meta-analysis
percutaneous coronary intervention for acute myocardial infarction: a meta- of safety and efficacy of bivalirudin versus heparin with or without routine
analysis of randomized trials in the era of stents and P2Y12 inhibitors. BMJ glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in patients with acute coronary syndrome. J
(Online). 2014;349:. Am Coll Cardiol Intv. 2015;8:201–213.
18. Steg PG, van ‘t Hof A, Hamm CW, et al. Bivalirudin started during emergency 41. Stone GW, McLaurin BT, Cox DA, et al. Bivalirudin for patients with acute
transport for primary PCI. N Engl J Med. 2013;369:2207–2217. coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. 2006;355:2203–2216.
19. Han Y, Guo J, Zheng Y, et al. Bivalirudin vs heparin with or without tirofi- 42. Valgimigli M, Frigoli E, Leonardi S, et al. Bivalirudin or unfractionated heparin
ban during primary percutaneous coronary intervention in acute myocardial in acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. 2015;373:997–1009.
infarction: the BRIGHT randomized clinical trial. JAMA. 2015;313:1336– 43. An international randomized trial comparing four thrombolytic strategies for
1346. acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 1993;329:673–682.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e841
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 72 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
44. Giraldez RR, Nicolau JC, Corbalan R, et al. Enoxaparin is superior to un- 20. Gencer B, Mach F, Murphy SA, et al. Efficacy of evolocumab on cardiovas-
fractionated heparin in patients with ST elevation myocardial infarction un- cular outcomes in patients with recent myocardial infarction: a prespecified
dergoing fibrinolysis regardless of the choice of lytic: an ExTRACT-TIMI 25 secondary analysis from the FOURIER trial. JAMA Cardiol. 2020;5:952–
analysis. Eur Heart J. 2007;28:1566–1573. 957.
45. Eikelboom JW, Quinlan DJ, Mehta SR, et al. Unfractionated and low-molec- 21. Chiang CE, Schwartz GG, Elbez Y, et al. Alirocumab and cardiovascular out-
ular-weight heparin as adjuncts to thrombolysis in aspirin-treated patients comes in patients with previous myocardial infarction: prespecified subanal-
with ST-elevation acute myocardial infarction: a meta-analysis of the ran- ysis from ODYSSEY OUTCOMES. Can J Cardiol. 2022;38:1542–1549.
domized trials. Circulation. 2005;112:3855–3867. 22. Koskinas KC, Windecker S, Pedrazzini G, et al. Evolocumab for early reduc-
tion of LDL cholesterol levels in patients with acute coronary syndromes
4.5. Lipid Management (EVOPACS). J Am Coll Cardiol. 2019;74:2452–2462.
1. Schwartz GG, Olsson AG, Ezekowitz MD, et al. Effects of atorvastatin on 23. Leucker TM, Blaha MJ, Jones SR, et al. Effect of evolocumab on atherogen-
early recurrent ischemic events in acute coronary syndromes: the MIRACL ic lipoproteins during the peri- and early postinfarction period: a placebo-
study: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA. 2001;285:1711–1718. controlled, randomized trial. Circulation. 2020;142:419–421.
2. de Lemos JA, Blazing MA, Wiviott SD, et al. Early intensive vs a delayed con- 24. Nicholls SJ, Kataoka Y, Nissen SE, et al. Effect of evolocumab on coronary
servative simvastatin strategy in patients with acute coronary syndromes: plaque phenotype and burden in statin-treated patients following myocar-
phase Z of the A to Z trial. JAMA. 2004;292:1307–1316. dial infarction. J Am Coll Cardiol Img. 2022;15:1308–1321.
3. Cannon CP, Braunwald E, McCabe CH, et al. Intensive versus moderate 25. Raber L, Ueki Y, Otsuka T, et al. Effect of alirocumab added to high-in-
lipid lowering with statins after acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. tensity statin therapy on coronary atherosclerosis in patients with acute
2004;350:1495–1504. myocardial infarction: the PACMAN-AMI randomized clinical trial. JAMA.
4. Baigent C, Blackwell L, Emberson J, et al. Efficacy and safety of more in- 2022;327:1771–1781.
tensive lowering of LDL cholesterol: a meta-analysis of data from 170 000 26. Ray KK, Wright RS, Kallend D, et al. Two phase 3 trials of inclisiran in pa-
participants in 26 randomised trials. Lancet. 2010;376:1670–1681. tients with elevated LDL cholesterol. N Engl J Med. 2020;382:1507–1519.
5. Cannon CP, Blazing MA, Giugliano RP, et al. Ezetimibe added to statin ther- 27. Bytyci I, Penson PE, Mikhailidis DP, et al. Prevalence of statin intolerance: a
apy after acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. 2015;372:2387–2397. meta-analysis. Eur Heart J. 2022;43:3213–3223.
6. Schwartz GG, Steg PG, Szarek M, et al. Alirocumab and cardiovascular 28. Cheeley MK, Saseen JJ, Agarwala A, et al. NLA scientific statement on
outcomes after acute coronary syndrome. N Engl J Med. 2018;379:2097– statin intolerance: a new definition and key considerations for ASCVD risk
2107. reduction in the statin intolerant patient. J Clin Lipidol. 2022;16:361–375.
7. Sabatine MS, Giugliano RP, Pedersen TR. Evolocumab in patients with car- 29. Ray KK, Bays HE, Catapano AL, et al. Safety and efficacy of bempedoic
diovascular disease. N Engl J Med. 2017;377:787–788. acid to reduce LDL cholesterol. N Engl J Med. 2019;380:1022–1032.
8. Moriarty PM, Thompson PD, Cannon CP, et al. Efficacy and safety of ali- 30. Goldberg AC, Leiter LA, Stroes ESG, et al. Effect of bempedoic acid vs pla-
rocumab vs ezetimibe in statin-intolerant patients, with a statin rechal- cebo added to maximally tolerated statins on low-density lipoprotein choles-
lenge arm: the ODYSSEY ALTERNATIVE randomized trial. J Clin Lipidol. terol in patients at high risk for cardiovascular disease: the CLEAR Wisdom
2015;9:758–769. randomized clinical trial. JAMA. 2019;322:1780–1788.
9. Nissen SE, Stroes E, Dent-Acosta RE, et al. Efficacy and tolerability of evo- 31. Ballantyne CM, Laufs U, Ray KK, et al. Bempedoic acid plus ezetimibe
locumab vs ezetimibe in patients with muscle-related statin intolerance: the fixed-dose combination in patients with hypercholesterolemia and high
GAUSS-3 randomized clinical trial. JAMA. 2016;315:1580–1590. CVD risk treated with maximally tolerated statin therapy. Eur J Prev Cardiol.
10. Nissen SE, Lincoff AM, Brennan D, et al. Bempedoic acid and cardiovascu- 2020;27:593–603.
lar outcomes in statin-intolerant patients. N Engl J Med. 2023;388:1353– 32. Oyama K, Giugliano RP, Blazing MA, et al. Baseline low-density lipoprotein
1364. cholesterol and clinical outcomes of combining ezetimibe with statin therapy
11. Giugliano RP, Pedersen TR, Park JG, et al. Clinical efficacy and safety of in IMPROVE-IT. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2021;78:1499–1507.
achieving very low LDL-cholesterol concentrations with the PCSK9 inhibi- 33. O’Donoghue ML, Giugliano RP, Wiviott SD, et al. Long-term evolocumab in
tor evolocumab: a prespecified secondary analysis of the FOURIER trial. patients with established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Circulation.
Lancet. 2017;390:1962–1971. 2022;146:1109–1119.
12. Schwartz GG, Gabriel Steg P, Bhatt DL, et al. Clinical efficacy and safety of 34. Giugliano RP, Cannon CP, Blazing MA, et al. Benefit of adding ezetimibe to
alirocumab after acute coronary syndrome according to achieved level of statin therapy on cardiovascular outcomes and safety in patients with versus
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol: a propensity score-matched analysis of without diabetes mellitus: results from IMPROVE-IT (Improved Reduction of
the ODYSSEY OUTCOMES trial. Circulation. 2021;143:1109–1122. Outcomes: Vytorin Efficacy International Trial). Circulation. 2018;137:1571–
13. Wiviott SD, Cannon CP, Morrow DA, et al. Can low-density lipoprotein be too 1582.
low? The safety and efficacy of achieving very low low-density lipoprotein 35. Bohula EA, Morrow DA, Giugliano RP, et al. Atherothrombotic risk strati-
with intensive statin therapy: a PROVE IT-TIMI 22 substudy. J Am Coll Car- fication and ezetimibe for secondary prevention. J Am Coll Cardiol.
diol. 2005;46:1411–1416. 2017;69:911–921.
14. Virani SS, Newby LK, Arnold SV, et al. 2023 AHA/ACC/ACCP/ASPC/ 36. Oliver W, Giugliano RP. Benefit of combination ezetimibe/simvastatin
NLA/PCNA guideline for the management of patients with chronic coro- among high-risk populations: lessons from the IMPROVE-IT trial. Curr Ath-
nary disease: a report of the American Heart Association/American College eroscler Rep. 2023;25:85–93.
of Cardiology Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 37. Sabatine MS, De Ferrari GM, Giugliano RP, et al. Clinical benefit of evo-
2023;148:e9–e119. locumab by severity and extent of coronary artery disease: analysis from
15. Ulvenstam A, Graipe A, Irewall AL, et al. Incidence and predictors of cardio- FOURIER. Circulation. 2018;138:756–766.
vascular outcomes after acute coronary syndrome in a population-based 38. Bonaca MP, Nault P, Giugliano RP, et al. Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol
cohort study. Sci Rep. 2023;13:3447. lowering with evolocumab and outcomes in patients with peripheral artery
16. Steen DL, Khan I, Andrade K, et al. Event rates and risk factors for recurrent disease: insights from the FOURIER trial (Further Cardiovascular Outcomes
cardiovascular events and mortality in a contemporary post acute coronary Research With PCSK9 Inhibition in Subjects With Elevated Risk). Circulation.
syndrome population representing 239 234 patients during 2005 to 2018 2018;137:338–350.
in the United States. J Am Heart Assoc. 2022;11:e022198. 39. Jukema JW, Szarek M, Zijlstra LE, et al. Alirocumab in patients with polyvas-
17. Baigent C, Blackwell L, Emberson J, et al. Cholesterol Treatment Trialists cular disease and recent acute coronary syndrome: ODYSSEY OUTCOMES
Collaboration. Efficacy and safety of more intensive lowering of LDL choles- trial. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2019;74:1167–1176.
terol: a meta-analysis of data from 170 000 participants in 26 randomised 40. Roe MT, Li QH, Bhatt DL, et al. Risk categorization using New American
trials. Lancet. 2010;376:1670–1681. College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Guidelines for choles-
18. Barth JH, Jackson BM, Farrin AJ, et al. Change in serum lipids after acute terol management and its relation to alirocumab treatment following acute
coronary syndromes: secondary analysis of SPACE ROCKET study data coronary syndromes. Circulation. 2019;140:1578–1589.
and a comparative literature review. Clin Chem. 2010;56:1592–1598. 41. Marston NA, Oyama K, Jarolim P, et al. Combining high-sensitivity tro-
19. Murphy SA, Cannon CP, Wiviott SD, et al. Effect of intensive lipid-lowering ponin with the American Heart Association/American College of Car-
therapy on mortality after acute coronary syndrome (a patient-level analysis diology cholesterol guidelines to guide evolocumab therapy. Circulation.
of the Aggrastat to Zocor and Pravastatin or Atorvastatin Evaluation and 2021;144:249–251.
Infection Therapy-Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 22 trials). Am J Car- 42. Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, et al. 2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/
diol. 2007;100:1047–1051. ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guideline on the man-
e842 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 73 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
agement of blood cholesterol: a report of the American College of Cardiol- randomized double-blind REMINDER study. Eur Heart J. 2014;35:2295–
ogy/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. 2302.
Circulation. 2019;139:e1082–e1143.
5.1. Regional Systems of STEMI Care
4.6. Beta-Blocker Therapy 1. Alexander T, Mullasari AS, Joseph G, et al. A system of care for patients
1. Chen ZM, Pan HC, Chen YP, et al. Early intravenous then oral metoprolol with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction in India: the Tamil Nadu-
in 45 852 patients with acute myocardial infarction: randomised placebo- ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction Program. JAMA Cardiol.
controlled trial. Lancet. 2005;366:1622–1632. 2017;2:498–505.
2. Roberts R, Rogers WJ, Mueller HS, et al. Immediate versus deferred beta- 2. Dharma S, Andriantoro H, Dakota I, et al. Hospital outcomes in STEMI pa-
blockade following thrombolytic therapy in patients with acute myocardial tients after the introduction of a regional STEMI network in the metropolitan
infarction. Results of the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) II-B area of a developing country. AsiaIntervention. 2018;4:92–97.
Study. Circulation. 1991;83:422–437. 3. Filgueiras Filho NM, Feitosa Filho GS, Solla DJF, et al. Implementation of
3. Freemantle N, Cleland J, Young P, et al. Beta blockade after myocar- a regional network for ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (STE-
dial infarction: systematic review and meta regression analysis. BMJ. MI) care and 30-day mortality in a low- to middle-income city in Brazil:
1999;318:1730–1737. findings from Salvador’s STEMI registry (RESISST). J Am Heart Assoc.
4. de Peuter OR, Lussana F, Peters RJ, et al. A systematic review of selective 2018;7:e008624.
and non-selective beta blockers for prevention of vascular events in patients 4. Jollis JG, Al-Khalidi HR, Roettig ML, et al. Regional systems of care demon-
with acute coronary syndrome or heart failure. Neth J Med. 2009;67:284– stration project: American Heart Association Mission: Lifeline STEMI Sys-
294. tems Accelerator. Circulation. 2016;134:365–374.
5. Dahl Aarvik M, Sandven I, Dondo TB, et al. Effect of oral beta-blocker treat- 5. Jollis JG, Al-Khalidi HR, Roettig ML, et al. Impact of regionalization of ST-
ment on mortality in contemporary post-myocardial infarction patients: a segment-elevation myocardial infarction care on treatment times and out-
systematic review and meta-analysis. Eur Heart J Cardiovasc Pharmacother. comes for emergency medical services-transported patients presenting to
2019;5:12–20. hospitals with percutaneous coronary intervention: Mission: Lifeline Accel-
6. Kontos MC, Diercks DB, Ho PM, et al. Treatment and outcomes in pa- erator-2. Circulation. 2018;137:376–387.
tients with myocardial infarction treated with acute beta-blocker therapy: 6. Puymirat E, Simon T, Cayla G, et al. Acute myocardial infarction: changes in
results from the American College of Cardiology’s NCDR. Am Heart J. patient characteristics, management, and 6-month outcomes over a period
2011;161:864–870. of 20 years in the FAST-MI program (French Registry of Acute ST-Eleva-
7. Yndigegn T, Lindahl B, Mars K, et al. Beta-blockers after myocardial infarc- tion or Non-ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction) 1995 to 2015. Circulation.
tion and preserved ejection fraction. N Engl J Med. 2024;390:1372–1381. 2017;136:1908–1919.
8. Watanabe H, Ozasa N, Morimoto T, et al. Long-term use of carvedilol in pa- 7. Jacobs AK, Ali MJ, Best PJ, et al. Systems of care for ST-segment-elevation
tients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction treated with primary myocardial infarction: a policy statement from the American Heart Associa-
percutaneous coronary intervention. PLoS One. 2018;13:e0199347. tion. Circulation. 2021;144:e310–e327.
9. Roolvink V, Ibanez B, Ottervanger JP, et al. Early intravenous beta-blockers 8. Jollis JG, Granger CB, Zegre-Hemsey JK, et al. Treatment time and in-hos-
in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction before primary pital mortality among patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarc-
percutaneous coronary intervention. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2016;67:2705– tion, 2018-2021. JAMA. 2022;328:2033–2040.
2715.
10. Ibanez B, Macaya C, Sanchez-Brunete V, et al. Effect of early metoprolol on 5.2.1. PPCI in STEMI
infarct size in ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction patients undergo- 1. McNamara RL, Wang Y, Herrin J, et al. Effect of door-to-balloon time on
ing primary percutaneous coronary intervention: the effect of metoprolol in mortality in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. J Am
cardioprotection during an acute myocardial infarction (METOCARD-CNIC) Coll Cardiol. 2006;47:2180–2186.
trial. Circulation. 2013;128:1495–1503. 2. De Luca G, Suryapranata H, Ottervanger JP, Antman EM. Time delay to
treatment and mortality in primary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarc-
4.7. Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Inhibitors tion: every minute of delay counts. Circulation. 2004;109:1223–1225.
1. Pfeffer MA, Braunwald E, Moye LA, et al. Effect of captopril on mortality and 3. Berger PB, Ellis SG, Holmes DR Jr, et al. Relationship between delay in
morbidity in patients with left ventricular dysfunction after myocardial infarc- performing direct coronary angioplasty and early clinical outcome in patients
tion. N Engl J Med. 1992;327:669–677. with acute myocardial infarction: results from the global use of strategies
2. Ambrosioni E, Borghi C, Magnani B. The effect of the angiotensin-con- to open occluded arteries in Acute Coronary Syndromes (GUSTO-IIb) trial.
verting-enzyme inhibitor zofenopril on mortality and morbidity after anterior Circulation. 1999;100:14–20.
myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 1995;332:80–85. 4. Menees DS, Peterson ED, Wang Y, et al. Door-to-balloon time and mortality
3. Koeber L, Torp-Pedersen C, Carlsen JE, et al. A clinical trial of the angioten- among patients undergoing primary PCI. N Engl J Med 2013;369:901–
sin-converting-enzyme inhibitor trandolapril in patients with left ventricular 909.
dysfunction after myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 1995;333:1670– 5. Global Use of Strategies to Open Occluded Coronary Arteries in Acute Cor-
1676. onary Syndromes Angioplasty Substudy I. A clinical trial comparing primary
4. ACE Inhibitor Myocardial Infarction Collaborative Group. Indications for ACE coronary angioplasty with tissue plasminogen activator for acute myocardial
inhibitors in the early treatment of acute myocardial infarction: systematic infarction. N Engl J Med 1997;336:1621–1628.
overview of individual data from 100 000 patients in randomized trials. Cir- 6. Keeley EC, Boura JA, Grines CL. Primary angioplasty versus intravenous
culation. 1998;97:2202–2212. thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction: a quantitative review of
5. Pfeffer MA, McMurray JJV, Velazquez EJ, et al. Valsartan, captopril, or both 23 randomised trials. Lancet. 2003;361:13–20.
in myocardial infarction complicated by heart failure, left ventricular dysfunc- 7. Zijlstra F, Hoorntje JC, de Boer MJ, et al. Long-term benefit of primary an-
tion, or both. N Engl J Med. 2003;349:1893–1906. gioplasty as compared with thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial in-
6. The Acute Infarction Ramipril Efficacy Study Investigators. Effect of ramipril farction. N Engl J Med. 1999;341:1413–1419.
on mortality and morbidity of survivors of acute myocardial infarction with 8. Scholz KH, Maier SKG, Maier LS, et al. Impact of treatment delay on mortal-
clinical evidence of heart failure. Lancet. 1993;342:821–828. ity in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients present-
7. Pitt B, Remme W, Zannad F, et al. Eplerenone, a selective aldosterone block- ing with and without haemodynamic instability: results from the German pro-
er, in patients with left ventricular dysfunction after myocardial infarction. N spective, multicentre FITT-STEMI trial. Eur Heart J. 2018;39:1065–1074.
Engl J Med. 2003;348:1309–1321. 9. Hochman JS, Sleeper LA, Webb JG, et al. Early revascularization in acute
8. Yusuf S, Teo KK, Pogue J, et al. Telmisartan, ramipril, or both in patients at myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock. SHOCK Investiga-
high risk for vascular events. N Engl J Med. 2008;358:1547–1559. tors. Should we emergently revascularize occluded coronaries for cardio-
9. McMurray JJV, Packer M, Desai AS, et al. Angiotensin-neprilysin inhibition genic shock. N Engl J Med. 1999;341:625–634.
versus enalapril in heart failure. N Engl J Med. 2014;371:993–1004. 10. Axelsson TA, Mennander A, Malmberg M, et al. Is emergency and sal-
10. Pfeffer MA, Claggett B, Lewis EF, et al. Angiotensin receptor-neprilysin vage coronary artery bypass grafting justified? The Nordic emergency/
inhibition in acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2021;385:1845– salvage coronary artery bypass grafting study. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg.
1855. 2016;49:1451–1456.
11. Montalescot G, Pitt B, Lopez de Sa E, et al. Early eplerenone treatment in pa- 11. Liakopoulos OJ, Schlachtenberger G, Wendt D, et al. Early clinical outcomes
tients with acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction without heart failure: the of surgical myocardial revascularization for acute coronary syndromes com-
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e843
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 74 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
plicated by cardiogenic shock: a report from the North-Rhine-Westphalia 48 hours: a single-center, retrospective experience. J Am Heart Assoc.
Surgical Myocardial Infarction Registry. J Am Heart Assoc. 2019;8:e012049. 2017;6:e005498.
12. Schomig A, Mehilli J, Antoniucci D, et al. Mechanical reperfusion in patients 3. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI
with acute myocardial infarction presenting more than 12 hours from symp- guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col-
tom onset: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA. 2005;293:2865–2872. lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical
13. Gierlotka M, Gasior M, Wilczek K, et al. Reperfusion by primary percutane- Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114.
ous coronary intervention in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial 4. Patlolla SH, Kanwar A, Cheungpasitporn W, et al. Temporal trends, clinical
infarction within 12 to 24 hours of the onset of symptoms (from a prospec- characteristics, and outcomes of emergent coronary artery bypass graft-
tive national observational study [PL-ACS]). Am J Cardiol. 2011;107:501– ing for acute myocardial infarction in the United States. J Am Heart Assoc.
508. 2021;10:e020517.
14. Ndrepepa G, Kastrati A, Mehilli J, et al. Mechanical reperfusion and long- 5. Thielmann M, Wendt D, Slottosch I, et al. Coronary artery bypass graft sur-
term mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction presenting 12 to gery in patients with acute coronary syndromes after primary percutaneous
48 hours from onset of symptoms. JAMA. 2009;301:487–488. coronary intervention: a current report from the North-Rhine Westphalia Sur-
15. Bouisset F, Gerbaud E, Bataille V, et al. Percutaneous myocardial revas- gical Myocardial Infarction Registry. J Am Heart Assoc. 2021;10:e021182.
cularization in late-presenting patients with STEMI. J Am Coll Cardiol.
2021;78:1291–1305. 5.3. Reperfusion at Non–PCI-Capable Hospitals
16. Hochman JS, Lamas GA, Buller CE, et al. Coronary intervention for persis- 1. Nielsen PH, Terkelsen CJ, Nielsen TT, et al. System delay and timing of in-
tent occlusion after myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2006;355:2395– tervention in acute myocardial infarction (from the Danish Acute Myocardial
2407. Infarction-2 [DANAMI-2] trial). Am J Cardiol. 2011;108:776–781.
17. Steg PG, Thuaire C, Himbert D, et al. DECOPI (DEsobstruction COronaire 2. Dalby M, Bouzamondo A, Lechat P, Montalescot G. Transfer for primary an-
en Post-Infarctus): a randomized multi-centre trial of occluded artery an- gioplasty versus immediate thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction: a
gioplasty after acute myocardial infarction. Eur Heart J. 2004;25:2187– meta-analysis. Circulation. 2003;108:1809–1814.
2194. 3. French WJ, Gunderson M, Travis D, et al. Emergency interhospital transfer
18. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI of patients with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction: call 9-1-1-the
guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col- American Heart Association Mission: Lifeline Program. J Am Heart Assoc.
lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical 2022;11:e026700.
Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114. 4. Li K, Zhang B, Zheng B, et al. Reperfusion strategy of ST-elevation myocar-
19. Shen YC, Krumholz H, Hsia RY. Association of cardiac care regionaliza- dial infarction: a meta-analysis of primary percutaneous coronary interven-
tion with access, treatment, and mortality among patients with ST-seg- tion and pharmaco-invasive therapy. Front Cardiovasc Med. 2022;9:813325.
ment elevation myocardial infarction. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 5. Fazel R, Joseph TI, Sankardas MA, et al. Comparison of reperfusion strate-
2021;14:e007195. gies for ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction: a multivariate network
20. Jollis JG, Al-Khalidi HR, Roettig ML, et al. Impact of regionalization of ST- meta-analysis. J Am Heart Assoc. 2020;9:e015186.
segment-elevation myocardial infarction care on treatment times and out- 6. Siontis KC, Barsness GW, Lennon RJ, et al. Pharmacoinvasive and pri-
comes for emergency medical services-transported patients presenting to mary percutaneous coronary intervention strategies in ST-elevation myo-
hospitals with percutaneous coronary intervention: Mission: Lifeline Accel- cardial infarction (from the Mayo Clinic STEMI Network). Am J Cardiol.
erator-2. Circulation. 2018;137:376–387. 2016;117:1904–1910.
21. Jollis JG, Al-Khalidi HR, Roettig ML, et al. Impact of regionalization of 7. Randomised trial of intravenous streptokinase, oral aspirin, both, or neither
ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction care on treatment times and among 17 187 cases of suspected acute myocardial infarction: ISIS-2.
outcomes for emergency medical services: transported patients present- ISIS-2 (Second International Study of Infarct Survival) Collaborative Group.
ing to hospitals with percutaneous coronary intervention. Circulation. Lancet. 1988;2:349–360.
2018;137:376–387. 8. Effectiveness of intravenous thrombolytic treatment in acute myocardial
22. Krumholz H, Herrin, J, Miller LW, et al. Improvements in door-to-balloon time infarction. Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Streptochinasi nell’Infarto Mio-
in the United States, 2005 to 2010. Circulation. 2011;124:1038–1045. cardico (GISSI). Lancet. 1986;1:397–402.
23. Yeh RW, Sidney S, Chandra M, et al. Population trends in the incidence and 9. An international randomized trial comparing four thrombolytic strategies for
outcomes of acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2010;362:2155– acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 1993;329:673–682.
2165. 10. Armstrong PW, Gershlick AH, Goldstein P, et al. Fibrinolysis or primary PCI in
24. Jhand A, Atti V, Gwon Y, et al. Meta-analysis of transradial vs transfemoral ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2013;368:1379–
access for percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with ST elevation 1387.
myocardial infarction. Am J Cardiol. 2021;141:23–30. 11. Schomig A, Mehilli J, Antoniucci D, et al. Mechanical reperfusion in patients
25. Volz S, Angeras O, Koul S, et al. Radial versus femoral access in patients with acute myocardial infarction presenting more than 12 hours from symp-
with acute coronary syndrome undergoing invasive management: a pre- tom onset: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA. 2005;293:2865–2872.
specified subgroup analysis from VALIDATE-SWEDEHEART. Eur Heart J 12. Gierlotka M, Gasior M, Wilczek K, et al. Reperfusion by primary percutane-
Acute Cardiovasc Care. 2019;8:510–519. ous coronary intervention in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial
26. Hochman JS, Sleeper LA, White HD, et al. One-year survival following early infarction within 12 to 24 hours of the onset of symptoms (from a prospec-
revascularization for cardiogenic shock. JAMA. 2001;285:190–192. tive national observational study [PL-ACS]). Am J Cardiol. 2011;107:501–
27. Hochman JS, Sleeper LA, Webb JG, et al. Early revascularization and long- 508.
term survival in cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction. 13. Indications for fibrinolytic therapy in suspected acute myocardial infarction:
JAMA. 2006;295:2511–2515. collaborative overview of early mortality and major morbidity results from all
28. Smilowitz NR, Alviar CL, Katz SD, Hochman JS. Coronary artery bypass randomised trials of more than 1000 patients. Fibrinolytic Therapy Trialists’
grafting versus percutaneous coronary intervention for myocardial infarction (FTT) Collaborative Group. Lancet. 1994;343:311–322.
complicated by cardiogenic shock. Am Heart J. 2020;226:255–263. 14. Huber K, Goldstein P, Danchin N, et al. Enhancing the efficacy of deliv-
29. Hochman JS, Reynolds HR, Dzavik V, et al. Long-term effects of percutane- ering reperfusion therapy: a European and North American experience
ous coronary intervention of the totally occluded infarct-related artery in the with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction networks. Am Heart J.
subacute phase after myocardial infarction. Circulation. 2011;124:2320– 2013;165:123–132.
2328. 15. Hsia RY, Shen YC. Percutaneous coronary intervention in the United States:
risk factors for untimely access. Health Serv Res. 2016;51:592–609.
5.2.2. Urgent CABG Surgery 16. Nallamothu BK, Bates ER, Wang Y, et al. Driving times and distances to
1. Pi Y, Roe MT, Holmes DN, et al. Utilization, characteristics, and in-hospital hospitals with percutaneous coronary intervention in the United States:
outcomes of coronary artery bypass grafting in patients with ST-segment- implications for prehospital triage of patients with ST-elevation myocardial
elevation myocardial infarction: results from the National Cardiovascular infarction. Circulation. 2006;113:1189–1195.
Data Registry Acute Coronary Treatment and Intervention Outcomes Net- 17. Horwitz JR, Nichols A, Nallamothu BK, et al. Expansion of invasive cardiac
work Registry-Get With The Guidelines. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. services in the United States. Circulation. 2013;128:803–810.
2017;10:e003490. 18. Andersen HR, Nielsen TT, Rasmussen K, et al. A comparison of coronary
2. Grothusen C, Friedrich C, Loehr J, et al. Outcome of stable patients with angioplasty with fibrinolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J
acute myocardial infarction and coronary artery bypass surgery within Med. 2003;349:733–742.
e844 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 75 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
19. Pinto DS, Frederick PD, Chakrabarti AK, et al. Benefit of transferring ST- 17. Van De Werf F, Adgey J, Ardissino D, et al. Assessment of the Safety Ef-
segment-elevation myocardial infarction patients for percutaneous coronary ficacy of a New Thrombolytic Investigators. Single-bolus tenecteplase com-
intervention compared with administration of onsite fibrinolytic declines as pared with front-loaded alteplase in acute myocardial infarction: the AS-
delays increase. Circulation. 2011;124:2512–2521. SENT-2 double-blind randomised trial. Lancet. 1999;354:716–722.
20. Yamaguchi J, Matoba T, Kikuchi M, et al. Effects of door-in to door-out time 18. Global Use of Strategies to Open Occluded Coronary Arteries I. A compari-
on mortality among ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction patients son of reteplase with alteplase for acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med.
transferred for primary percutaneous coronary intervention - systematic re- 1997;337:1118–1123.
view and meta-analysis. Circ Rep. 2022;4:109–115.
21. Ward MJ, Vogus TJ, Bonnet K, et al. Breaking down walls: a qualitative evalu- 5.3.2. Coronary Angiography and PCI After Fibrinolytic
ation of perceived emergency department delays for patients transferred Therapy
with ST-elevation myocardial infarction. BMC Emerg Med. 2020;20:60. 1. Scheller B, Hennen B, Hammer B, et al. Beneficial effects of immediate
22. Sinnaeve PR, Armstrong PW, Gershlick AH, et al. ST-segment-elevation stenting after thrombolysis in acute myocardial infarction. J Am Coll Cardiol.
myocardial infarction patients randomized to a pharmaco-invasive strategy 2003;42:634–641.
or primary percutaneous coronary intervention: Strategic Reperfusion Early 2. Le May MR, Wells GA, Labinaz M, et al. Combined angioplasty and pharma-
After Myocardial Infarction (STREAM) 1-year mortality follow-up. Circulation. cological intervention versus thrombolysis alone in acute myocardial infarc-
2014;130:1139–1145. tion (CAPITAL AMI study). J Am Coll Cardiol. 2005;46:417–424.
3. Di Mario C, Dudek D, Piscione F, et al. Immediate angioplasty versus stan-
5.3.1. Timing and Choice of Agent for Fibrinolytic Therapy dard therapy with rescue angioplasty after thrombolysis in the Combined
1. Halvorsen S, Huber K. Fibrinolytic treatment of ST-elevation myocardial in- Abciximab REteplase Stent Study in Acute Myocardial Infarction (CA-
farction. Update 2014. Hamostaseologie. 2014;34:47–53. RESS-in-AMI): an open, prospective, randomised, multicentre trial. Lancet.
2. Koutsoukis A, Kanakakis I. Challenges and unanswered questions in STEMI 2008;371:559–568.
management. Hellenic J Cardiol. 2019;60:211–215. 4. Cantor WJ, Fitchett D, Borgundvaag B, et al. Routine early angioplasty after
3. Gershlick AH, Westerhout CM, Armstrong PW, et al. Impact of a phar- fibrinolysis for acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2009;360:2705–
macoinvasive strategy when delays to primary PCI are prolonged. Heart. 2718.
2015;101:692–698. 5. Bohmer E, Hoffmann P, Abdelnoor M, et al. Efficacy and safety of immedi-
4. Siddiqi TJ, Usman MS, Khan MS, et al. Meta-analysis comparing primary ate angioplasty versus ischemia-guided management after thrombolysis in
percutaneous coronary intervention versus pharmacoinvasive therapy acute myocardial infarction in areas with very long transfer distances results
in transfer patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction. Am J Cardiol. of the NORDISTEMI (NORwegian study on DIstrict treatment of ST-eleva-
2018;122:542–547. tion myocardial infarction). J Am Coll Cardiol. 2010;55:102–110.
5. Fazel R, Joseph TI, Sankardas MA, et al. Comparison of reperfusion strate- 6. Gershlick AH, Stephens-Lloyd A, Hughes S, et al. Rescue angioplasty after
gies for ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction: a multivariate network failed thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med.
meta-analysis. J Am Heart Assoc. 2020;9:e015186. 2005;353:2758–2768.
6. Bainey KR, Armstrong PW, Zheng Y, et al. Pharmacoinvasive strategy versus 7. Sutton AG, Campbell PG, Graham R, et al. A randomized trial of rescue
primary percutaneous coronary intervention in ST-elevation myocardial in- angioplasty versus a conservative approach for failed fibrinolysis in ST-seg-
farction in clinical practice: insights from the Vital Heart Response Registry. ment elevation myocardial infarction: the Middlesbrough Early Revascular-
Circ Cardiovasc Interv. 2019;12:e008059. ization to Limit INfarction (MERLIN) trial. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2004;44:287–
7. Sinnaeve PR, Armstrong PW, Gershlick AH, et al. ST-segment-elevation 296.
myocardial infarction patients randomized to a pharmaco-invasive strategy 8. Wijeysundera HC, Vijayaraghavan R, Nallamothu BK, et al. Rescue angio-
or primary percutaneous coronary intervention: Strategic Reperfusion Early plasty or repeat fibrinolysis after failed fibrinolytic therapy for ST-segment
After Myocardial Infarction (STREAM) 1-year mortality follow-up. Circulation. myocardial infarction. A meta-analysis of randomized trials. J Am Coll Car-
2014;130:1139–1145. diol. 2007;49:422–430.
8. Indications for fibrinolytic therapy in suspected acute myocardial infarction: 9. Collet JP, Montalescot G, Le May M, et al. Percutaneous coronary interven-
collaborative overview of early mortality and major morbidity results from all tion after fibrinolysis: a multiple meta-analyses approach according to the
randomised trials of more than 1000 patients. Fibrinolytic Therapy Trialists’ type of strategy. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2006;48:1326–1335.
(FTT) Collaborative Group. Lancet. 1994;343:311–322. 10. Borgia F, Goodman SG, Halvorsen S, et al. Early routine percutaneous coro-
9. Late Assessment of Thrombolytic Efficacy (LATE) study with alteplase 6-24 nary intervention after fibrinolysis vs. standard therapy in ST-segment el-
hours after onset of acute myocardial infarction. Lancet. 1993;342:759– evation myocardial infarction: a meta-analysis. Eur Heart J. 2010;31:2156–
766. 2169.
10. Langer A, Goodman SG, Topol EJ, et al. Late assessment of thrombolytic 11. Fernandez-Aviles F, Alonso JJ, Castro-Beiras A, et al. Routine invasive strat-
efficacy (LATE) study: prognosis in patients with non-Q wave myocardial egy within 24 hours of thrombolysis versus ischaemia-guided conservative
infarction. (LATE Study Investigators). J Am Coll Cardiol. 1996;27:1327– approach for acute myocardial infarction with ST-segment elevation (GRA-
1332. CIA-1): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet. 2004;364:1045–1053.
11. Bode C, Smalling RW, Berg G, et al. Randomized comparison of coronary 12. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI
thrombolysis achieved with double-bolus reteplase (recombinant plasmino- guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col-
gen activator) and front-loaded, accelerated alteplase (recombinant tissue lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical
plasminogen activator) in patients with acute myocardial infarction. The Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114.
RAPID II Investigators. Circulation. 1996;94:891–898. 13. de Lemos JA, Braunwald E. ST segment resolution as a tool for assessing
12. Armstrong PW, Collen D. Fibrinolysis for acute myocardial infarction: current the efficacy of reperfusion therapy. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2001;38:1283–1294.
status and new horizons for pharmacological reperfusion, part 1. Circulation. 14. Sutton AG, Campbell PG, Price DJ, et al. Failure of thrombolysis by strep-
2001;103:2862–2866. tokinase: detection with a simple electrocardiographic method. Heart.
13. Neuhaus KL, von Essen R, Tebbe U, et al. Improved thrombolysis in acute 2000;84:149–156.
myocardial infarction with front-loaded administration of alteplase: results of 15. Mason PJ, Shah B, Tamis-Holland JE, et al. An update on radial artery ac-
the rt-PA-APSAC patency study (TAPS). J Am Coll Cardiol. 1992;19:885– cess and best practices for transradial coronary angiography and interven-
891. tion in acute coronary syndrome: a scientific statement from the American
14. Cannon CP, McCabe CH, Gibson CM, et al. TNK-tissue plasminogen Heart Association. Circ Cardiovasc Interv. 2018;11:e000035.
activator in acute myocardial infarction. Results of the Thromboly- 16. Van de Werf F, Ristic AD, Averkov OV, et al. STREAM-2: half-dose te-
sis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) 10A dose-ranging trial. Circulation. necteplase or primary percutaneous coronary intervention in older patients
1997;95:351–356. with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction: a randomized, open-label
15. Jinatongthai P, Kongwatcharapong J, Foo CY, et al. Comparative efficacy trial. Circulation. 2023;148:753–764.
and safety of reperfusion therapy with fibrinolytic agents in patients with ST- 17. Abdel-Qadir H, Yan AT, Tan M, et al. Consistency of benefit from an ear-
segment elevation myocardial infarction: a systematic review and network ly invasive strategy after fibrinolysis: a patient-level meta-analysis. Heart.
meta-analysis. Lancet. 2017;390:747–759. 2015;101:1554–1561.
16. Gunlu S, Demir M. Comparison of tenecteplase versus alteplase in STEMI 18. Fazel R, Joseph TI, Sankardas MA, et al. Comparison of reperfusion strate-
patients treated with ticagrelor: a cross-sectional study. Am J Emerg Med. gies for ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction: a multivariate network
2022;58:52–56. meta-analysis. J Am Heart Assoc. 2020;9:e015186.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e845
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 76 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
19. Bainey KR, Armstrong PW, Zheng Y, et al. Pharmacoinvasive strategy versus structive coronary artery disease: a scientific statement from the American
primary percutaneous coronary intervention in ST-elevation myocardial in- Heart Association. Circulation. 2019;139:e891–e908.
farction in clinical practice: insights from the Vital Heart Response Registry. 18. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI
Circ Cardiovasc Interv. 2019;12:e008059. guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col-
20. Madan M, Halvorsen S, Di Mario C, et al. Relationship between time to in- lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical
vasive assessment and clinical outcomes of patients undergoing an early Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114.
invasive strategy after fibrinolysis for ST-segment elevation myocardial in-
farction: a patient-level analysis of the randomized early routine invasive 7.1. Vascular Access Approach for PCI
clinical trials. J Am Coll Cardiol Intv. 2015;8:166–174. 1. Valgimigli M, Frigoli E, Leonardi S, et al. Radial versus femoral access and bi-
21. Ellis SG, Tendera M, de Belder MA, et al. Facilitated PCI in patients with valirudin versus unfractionated heparin in invasively managed patients with
ST-elevation myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2008;358:2205– acute coronary syndrome (MATRIX): final 1-year results of a multicentre,
2217. randomised controlled trial. Lancet. 2018;392:835–848.
2. Bernat I, Horak D, Stasek J, et al. ST-segment elevation myocardial infarc-
6.1. Rationale and Timing for a Routine Invasive or Selec- tion treated by radial or femoral approach in a multicenter randomized clini-
tive Invasive Approach cal trial: the STEMI-RADIAL trial. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2014;63:964–972.
1. Cannon CP, Weintraub WS, Demopoulos LA, et al. Comparison of early in- 3. Gargiulo G, Giacoppo D, Jolly SS, et al. Effects on mortality and major
vasive and conservative strategies in patients with unstable coronary syn- bleeding of radial versus femoral artery access for coronary angiography or
dromes treated with the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor tirofiban. N Engl J percutaneous coronary intervention: meta-analysis of individual patient data
Med. 2001;344:1879–1887. from 7 multicenter randomized clinical trials. Circulation. 2022;146:1329–
2. Fox KA, Poole-Wilson PA, Henderson RA, et al. Interventional versus con- 1343.
servative treatment for patients with unstable angina or non-ST-elevation 4. Ando G, Capodanno D. Radial versus femoral access in invasively managed
myocardial infarction: the British Heart Foundation RITA 3 randomised trial. patients with acute coronary syndrome: a systematic review and meta-anal-
Randomized Intervention Trial of unstable Angina. Lancet. 2002;360:743– ysis. Ann Intern Med. 2015;163:932–940.
751. 5. Ando G, Capodanno D. Radial access reduces mortality in patients with
3. Invasive compared with non-invasive treatment in unstable coronary-artery acute coronary syndromes: results from an updated trial sequential analysis
disease: FRISC II prospective randomised multicentre study. Fragmin and of randomized trials. J Am Coll Cardiol Intv. 2016;9:660–670.
Fast Revascularisation during Instability in Coronary artery disease Investi- 6. Valgimigli M, Gagnor A, Calabro P, et al. Radial versus femoral access in
gators. Lancet. 1999;354:708–715. patients with acute coronary syndromes undergoing invasive management:
4. O’Donoghue M, Boden WE, Braunwald E, et al. Early invasive vs conser- a randomised multicentre trial. Lancet. 2015;385:2465–2476.
vative treatment strategies in women and men with unstable angina and 7. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI
non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: a meta-analysis. JAMA. guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col-
2008;300:71–80. lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical
5. Mehta SR, Cannon CP, Fox KA, et al. Routine vs selective invasive strategies Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114.
in patients with acute coronary syndromes: a collaborative meta-analysis of 8. Masoudi FA, Ponirakis A, de Lemos JA, et al. Trends in US cardiovascular
randomized trials. JAMA. 2005;293:2908–2917. care: 2016 report from 4 ACC national cardiovascular data registries. J Am
6. Fox KA, Clayton TC, Damman P, et al. Long-term outcome of a routine ver- Coll Cardiol. 2017;69:1427–1450.
sus selective invasive strategy in patients with non-ST-segment elevation 9. Kok MM, Weernink MGM, von Birgelen C, et al. Patient preference for radial
acute coronary syndrome a meta-analysis of individual patient data. J Am versus femoral vascular access for elective coronary procedures: the PRE-
Coll Cardiol. 2010;55:2435–2445. VAS study. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. 2018;91:17–24.
7. de Winter RJ, Windhausen F, Cornel JH, et al. Early invasive versus selec- 10. Gaudino M, Benedetto U, Fremes S, et al. Association of radial artery graft
tively invasive management for acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. vs saphenous vein graft with long-term cardiovascular outcomes among pa-
2005;353:1095–1104. tients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting: a systematic review and
8. Jobs A, Mehta SR, Montalescot G, et al. Optimal timing of an invasive strat- meta-analysis. JAMA 2020;324:179–187.
egy in patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome: a meta- 11. Dahal K, Rijal J, Lee J, et al. Transulnar versus transradial access for coro-
analysis of randomised trials. Lancet. 2017;390:737–746. nary angiography or percutaneous coronary intervention: a meta-analysis of
9. Yoshida R, Ishii H, Morishima I, et al. Early versus delayed invasive strategy in randomized controlled trials. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. 2016;87:857–865.
patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome and concomitant 12. Talha KM, Waqar E, Ashley KE, et al. Distal trans-radial access compared to
congestive heart failure. J Cardiol. 2019;74:320–327. conventional trans-radial access in coronary interventions: a meta-analysis.
10. Zoni CR, Mukherjee D, Gulati M. Proposed new classification for acute coro- Crit Pathw Cardiol. 2022;21:176–178.
nary syndrome: acute coronary syndrome requiring immediate reperfusion. 13. Jolly SS, AlRashidi S, d’Entremont MA, et al. Routine ultrasonography guid-
Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. 2023;101:1177–1181. ance for femoral vascular access for cardiac procedures: the UNIVERSAL
11. Mehta SR, Granger CB, Boden WE, et al. Early versus delayed invasive in- randomized clinical trial. JAMA Cardiol. 2022;7:1110–1118.
tervention in acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. 2009;360:2165– 14. Ferrante G, Rao SV, Juni P, et al. Radial versus femoral access for coro-
2175. nary interventions across the entire spectrum of patients with coronary ar-
12. Kofoed KF, Kelbaek H, Hansen PR, et al. Early versus standard care inva- tery disease: a meta-analysis of randomized trials. J Am Coll Cardiol Intv.
sive examination and treatment of patients with non-ST-segment elevation 2016;9:1419–1434.
acute coronary syndrome verdict randomized controlled trial. Circulation. 15. Le May M, Wells G, So D, et al. Safety and efficacy of femoral access vs
2018;138:2741–2750. radial access in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: the SAFARI-
13. Scanlon PJ, Faxon DP, Audet AM, et al. ACC/AHA guidelines for coronary STEMI randomized clinical trial. JAMA Cardiol. 2020;5:126–134.
angiography. A report of the American College of Cardiology/American
Heart Association Task orce on practice guidelines (Committee on Coronary 7.2. Use of Aspiration Thrombectomy
Angiography). Circulation. 1999;99:2345–2357. 1. Frobert O, Lagerqvist B, Olivecrona GK, et al. Thrombus aspiration during ST-
14. Elgendy IY, Mahmoud AN, Wen X, Bavry AA. Meta-analysis of randomized segment elevation myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2013;369:1587–
trials of long-term all-cause mortality in patients with non-ST-elevation 1597.
acute coronary syndrome managed with routine invasive versus selective 2. Jolly SS, Cairns JA, Yusuf S, et al. Randomized trial of primary PCI with
invasive strategies. Am J Cardiol. 2017;119:560–564. or without routine manual thrombectomy. N Engl J Med. 2015;372:1389–
15. Awan A, Ogunti R, Fatima U, et al. Timing of percutaneous coronary inter- 1398.
vention in non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome: meta-analysis and 3. Jolly SS, James S, Dzavik V, et al. Thrombus aspiration in ST-segment-ele-
systematic review of literature. Cardiovasc Revasc Med. 2020;21:1398– vation myocardial infarction: an individual patient meta-analysis: Thrombec-
1404. tomy Trialists Collaboration. Circulation. 2017;135:143–152.
16. Kite TA, Kurmani SA, Bountziouka V, et al. Timing of invasive strategy in 4. Stone GW, Maehara A, Witzenbichler B, et al. Intracoronary abciximab and
non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome: a meta-analysis of randomized aspiration thrombectomy in patients with large anterior myocardial infarc-
controlled trials. Eur Heart J. 2022;43:3148–3161. tion: the INFUSE-AMI randomized trial. JAMA. 2012;307:1817–1826.
17. Tamis-Holland JE, Jneid H, Reynolds HR, et al. Contemporary diagnosis and 5. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI
management of patients with myocardial infarction in the absence of ob- guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col-
e846 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 77 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical 13. Ladwiniec A, Walsh SJ, Holm NR, et al. Intravascular ultrasound to guide
Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114. left main stem intervention: a NOBLE trial substudy. EuroIntervention.
6. Henriques JP, Zijlstra F, Ottervanger JP, et al. Incidence and clinical signifi- 2020;16:201–209.
cance of distal embolization during primary angioplasty for acute myocardial 14. Maehara A, Matsumura M, Ali ZA, et al. IVUS-guided versus OCT-guided
infarction. Eur Heart J. 2002;23:1112–1117. coronary stent implantation: a critical appraisal. J Am Coll Cardiol Intv.
7. Stone GW, Peterson MA, Lansky AJ, et al. Impact of normalized myocardial 2017;10:1487–1503.
perfusion after successful angioplasty in acute myocardial infarction. J Am 15. Truesdell AG, Alasnag MA, Kaul P, et al. Intravascular imaging during per-
Coll Cardiol. 2002;39:591–597. cutaneous coronary intervention: JACC state-of-the-art review. J Am Coll
8. Dudek D, Mielecki W, Burzotta F, et al. Thrombus aspiration followed by Cardiol. 2023;81:590–605.
direct stenting: a novel strategy of primary percutaneous coronary interven- 16. Prati F, Romagnoli E, Burzotta F, et al. Clinical impact of OCT findings during
tion in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. Results of the Polish- PCI: the CLI-OPCI II study. J Am Coll Cardiol Img. 2015;8:1297–1305.
Italian-Hungarian RAndomized ThrombEctomy Trial (PIHRATE Trial). Am 17. Soeda T, Uemura S, Park SJ, et al. Incidence and clinical significance of
Heart J. 2010;160:966–972. poststent optical coherence tomography findings: one-year follow-up study
9. Sardella G, Mancone M, Bucciarelli-Ducci C, et al. Thrombus aspiration from a multicenter registry. Circulation. 2015;132:1020–1029.
during primary percutaneous coronary intervention improves myocardial 18. Giacoppo D, Laudani C, Occhipinti G, et al. Coronary angiography, intra-
reperfusion and reduces infarct size: the EXPIRA (thrombectomy with ex- vascular ultrasound, and optical coherence tomography for guiding of per-
port catheter in infarct-related artery during primary percutaneous coronary cutaneous coronary intervention: a systematic review and network meta-
intervention) prospective, randomized trial. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2009;53:309– analysis. Circulation. 2024;149:1065–1086.
315.
10. Svilaas T, Vlaar PJ, van der Horst IC, et al. Thrombus aspiration dur- 7.4.1. Management of Multivessel CAD in STEMI
ing primary percutaneous coronary intervention. N Engl J Med. 1. Mehta SR, Wood DA, Storey RF, et al. Complete revascularization with multi-
2008;358:557–567. vessel PCI for myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2019;381:1411–1421.
11. Vlaar PJ, Svilaas T, van der Horst IC, et al. Cardiac death and reinfarction 2. Gershlick AH, Khan JN, Kelly DJ, et al. Randomized trial of complete versus
after 1 year in the Thrombus Aspiration during Percutaneous coronary in- lesion-only revascularization in patients undergoing primary percutaneous
tervention in Acute myocardial infarction Study (TAPAS): a 1-year follow-up coronary intervention for STEMI and multivessel disease: the CvLPRIT trial.
study. Lancet. 2008;371:1915–1920. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2015;65:963–972.
12. Jolly SS, Cairns JA, Yusuf S, et al. Outcomes after thrombus aspiration for 3. Bainey KR, Engstroem T, Smits PC, et al. Complete vs culprit-lesion-only re-
ST elevation myocardial infarction: 1-year follow-up of the prospective ran- vascularization for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: a systematic
domised TOTAL trial. Lancet (London, England). 2016;387:127–135. review and meta-analysis. JAMA Cardiol. 2020;5:881–888.
13. Lagerqvist B, Frobert O, Olivecrona GK, et al. Outcomes 1 year after throm- 4. Engstrom T, Kelbaek H, Helqvist S, et al. Complete revascularisation versus
bus aspiration for myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2014;371:1111– treatment of the culprit lesion only in patients with ST-segment elevation
1120. myocardial infarction and multivessel disease (DANAMI-3-PRIMULTI): an
open-label, randomised controlled trial. Lancet. 2015;386:665–671.
7.3. Use of Intracoronary Imaging 5. Di Mario C, Mara S, Flavio A, et al. Single vs multivessel treatment during
1. Lee JM, Choi KH, Song YB, et al. Intravascular imaging-guided or angiogra- primary angioplasty: results of the multicentre randomised HEpacoat for
phy-guided complex PCI. N Engl J Med. 2023;388:1668–1679. cuLPrit or multivessel stenting for Acute Myocardial Infarction (HELP AMI)
2. Ali ZA, Landmesser U, Maehara A, et al. Optical coherence tomography- Study. Int J Cardiovasc Intervent. 2004;6:128–133.
guided versus angiography-guided PCI. N Engl J Med. 2023;389:1466– 6. Politi L, Sgura F, Rossi R, et al. A randomised trial of target-vessel versus
1476. multi-vessel revascularisation in ST-elevation myocardial infarction: major
3. Hong SJ, Mintz GS, Ahn CM, et al. Effect of intravascular ultrasound-guided adverse cardiac events during long-term follow-up. Heart. 2010;96:662–
drug-eluting stent implantation: 5-year follow-up of the IVUS-XPL random- 667.
ized trial. J Am Coll Cardiol Intv. 2020;13:62–71. 7. Smits PC, Abdel-Wahab M, Neumann FJ, et al. Fractional flow reserve-
4. Holm NR, Andreasen LN, Neghabat O, et al. OCT or angiogra- guided multivessel angioplasty in myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med.
phy guidance for PCI in complex bifurcation lesions. N Engl J Med. 2017;376:1234–1244.
2023;389:1477–1487. 8. Wald DS, Morris JK, Wald NJ, et al. Randomized trial of preventive angio-
5. Gao XF, Ge Z, Kong XQ, et al. 3-year outcomes of the ULTIMATE trial com- plasty in myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2013;369:1115–1123.
paring intravascular ultrasound versus angiography-guided drug-eluting 9. Mehta SR, Wang J, Wood DA, et al. Complete revascularization vs culprit
stent implantation. J Am Coll Cardiol Intv. 2021;14:247–257. lesion-only percutaneous coronary intervention for angina-related quality of
6. Kang DY, Ahn JM, Yun SC, et al. Guiding intervention for complex coronary life in patients with ST-segment Elevation myocardial infarction: results from
lesions by optical coherence tomography or intravascular ultrasound. J Am the COMPLETE randomized clinical trial. JAMA Cardiol. 2022;7:1091–
Coll Cardiol. 2024;83:401–413. 1099.
7. Ali ZA, Maehara A, Genereux P, et al. Optical coherence tomography com- 10. Diletti R, den Dekker WK, Bennett J, et al. Immediate versus staged com-
pared with intravascular ultrasound and with angiography to guide coronary plete revascularisation in patients presenting with acute coronary syndrome
stent implantation (ILUMIEN III: OPTIMIZE PCI): a randomised controlled and multivessel coronary disease (BIOVASC): a prospective, open-label,
trial. Lancet. 2016;388:2618–2628. non-inferiority, randomised trial. Lancet. 2023;401:1172–1182.
8. Kubo T, Shinke T, Okamura T, et al. Optical frequency domain imaging vs. in- 11. Stahli BE, Varbella F, Linke A, et al. Timing of complete revascularization with
travascular ultrasound in percutaneous coronary intervention (OPINION tri- multivessel PCI for myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2023;389:1368–
al): one-year angiographic and clinical results. Eur Heart J. 2017;38:3139– 1379.
3147. 12. Maqsood MH, Tamis-Holland JE, Rao SV, et al. Culprit-only revasculariza-
9. Chamie D, Costa JR Jr, Damiani LP, et al. Optical coherence tomography tion, single-setting complete revascularization, and staged complete re-
versus intravascular ultrasound and angiography to guide percutaneous vascularization in acute myocardial infarction: insights from a mixed treat-
coronary interventions: the iSIGHT randomized trial. Circ Cardiovasc Interv. ment comparison meta-analysis of randomized trials. Circ Cardiovasc Interv.
2021;14:e009452. 2024;17:e013737.
10. Muramatsu T, Ozaki Y, Nanasato M, et al. Comparison between optical 13. Thiele H, Akin I, Sandri M, et al. PCI strategies in patients with acute myocar-
frequency domain imaging and intravascular ultrasound for percutane- dial infarction and cardiogenic shock. N Engl J Med. 2017;377:2419–2432.
ous coronary intervention guidance in biolimus A9-eluting stent implan- 14. Thiele H, Akin I, Sandri M, et al. One-year outcomes after PCI strategies in
tation: a randomized MISTIC-1 non-inferiority trial. Circ Cardiovasc Interv. cardiogenic shock. N Engl J Med. 2018;379:1699–1710.
2020;13:e009314. 15. Kolte D, Sardar P, Khera S, et al. Culprit vessel-only versus multivessel per-
11. Stone GW, Christiansen EH, Ali ZA, et al. Intravascular imaging-guided cor- cutaneous coronary intervention in patients with cardiogenic shock com-
onary drug-eluting stent implantation: an updated network meta-analysis. plicating ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction: a collaborative meta-
Lancet. 2024;403:824–837. analysis. Circ Cardiovasc Interv. 2017;10:e005582.
12. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI 16. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI
guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col- guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col-
lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical
Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114. Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e847
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 78 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
17. Puymirat E, Cayla G, Simon T, et al. Multivessel PCI guided by FFR or angi- 15. Brener SJ, Milford-Beland S, Roe MT, et al. Culprit-only or multivessel re-
ography for myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2021;385:297–308. vascularization in patients with acute coronary syndromes: an American Col-
18. Lee JM, Kim HK, Park KH, et al. Fractional flow reserve versus angiogra- lege of Cardiology National Cardiovascular Database Registry report. Am
phy-guided strategy in acute myocardial infarction with multivessel disease: Heart J. 2008;155:140–146.
a randomized trial. Eur Heart J. 2023;44:473–484. 16. Hanratty CG, Koyama Y, Rasmussen HH, et al. Exaggeration of nonculprit
19. Reddy RK, Howard JP, Jamil Y, et al. Percutaneous coronary revasculariza- stenosis severity during acute myocardial infarction: implications for imme-
tion strategies after myocardial infarction: a systematic review and network diate multivessel revascularization. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2002;40:911–916.
meta-analysis. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2024;84:276–294. 17. Van Belle E, Baptista SB, Raposo L, et al. Impact of routine fractional flow
20. Farkouh ME, Domanski M, Sleeper LA, et al. Strategies for multivessel re- reserve on management decision and 1-year clinical outcome of patients
vascularization in patients with diabetes. N Engl J Med. 2012;367:2375– with acute coronary syndromes: PRIME-FFR (Insights from the POST-IT
2384. [Portuguese Study on the Evaluation of FFR-Guided Treatment of Coronary
21. Kappetein AP, Head SJ, Morice MC, et al. Treatment of complex coronary Disease] and R3F [French FFR Registry] Integrated Multicenter Registries-
artery disease in patients with diabetes: 5-year results comparing outcomes Implementation of FFR [Fractional Flow Reserve] in Routine Practice). Circ
of bypass surgery and percutaneous coronary intervention in the SYNTAX Cardiovasc Interv. 2017;10:e004296.
trial. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2013;43:1006–1013. 18. Head SJ, Milojevic M, Daemen J, et al. Mortality after coronary artery by-
22. Head SJ, Milojevic M, Daemen J, et al. Mortality after coronary artery by- pass grafting versus percutaneous coronary intervention with stenting for
pass grafting versus percutaneous coronary intervention with stenting for coronary artery disease: a pooled analysis of individual patient data. Lancet.
coronary artery disease: a pooled analysis of individual patient data. Lancet. 2018;391:939–948.
2018;391:939–948. 19. Sabatine MS, Bergmark BA, Murphy SA, et al. Percutaneous coronary inter-
23. Morice MC, Serruys PW, Kappetein AP, et al. Five-year outcomes in patients vention with drug-eluting stents versus coronary artery bypass grafting in
with left main disease treated with either percutaneous coronary interven- left main coronary artery disease: an individual patient data meta-analysis.
tion or coronary artery bypass grafting in the synergy between percutane- Lancet. 2021;398:2247–2257.
ous coronary intervention with taxus and cardiac surgery trial. Circulation. 20. Farkouh ME, Domanski M, Sleeper LA, et al. Strategies for multivessel re-
2014;129:2388–2394. vascularization in patients with diabetes. N Engl J Med. 2012;367:2375–
24. Mohr FW, Morice MC, Kappetein AP, et al. Coronary artery bypass graft 2384.
surgery versus percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with three- 21. Velazquez EJ, Lee KL, Jones RH, et al. Coronary-artery bypass surgery in
vessel disease and left main coronary disease: 5-year follow-up of the ran- patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy. N Engl J Med. 2016;374:1511–
domised, clinical SYNTAX trial. Lancet. 2013;381:629–638. 1520.
22. Parikh SV, de Lemos JA, Jessen ME, et al. Timing of in-hospital coronary
7.4.2. Management of Multivessel CAD in NSTE-ACS artery bypass graft surgery for non-ST-segment elevation myocardial in-
1. Biscaglia S, Guiducci V, Escaned J, et al. Complete or culprit-only PCI in farction patients results from the National Cardiovascular Data Registry
older patients with myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2023;389:889– ACTION Registry-GWTG (Acute Coronary Treatment and Intervention Out-
898. comes Network Registry-Get With The Guidelines). J Am Coll Cardiol Intv.
2. Rathod KS, Koganti S, Jain AK, et al. Complete versus culprit-only lesion 2010;3:419–427.
intervention in patients with acute coronary syndromes. J Am Coll Cardiol. 23. Davierwala PM, Verevkin A, Leontyev S, et al. Does timing of coronary artery
2018;72:1989–1999. bypass surgery affect early and long-term outcomes in patients with non-
3. Siebert VR, Borgaonkar S, Jia X, et al. Meta-analysis comparing multi- ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction? Circulation. 2015;132:731–
vessel versus culprit coronary arterial revascularization for patients with 740.
non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes. Am J Cardiol. 24. Nichols EL, McCullough JN, Ross CS, et al. Optimal timing from myocardial
2019;124:1501–1511. infarction to coronary artery bypass grafting on hospital mortality. Ann Tho-
4. Sardella G, Lucisano L, Garbo R, et al. Single-staged compared with multi- rac Surg. 2017;103:162–171.
staged PCI in multivessel NSTEMI patients: the SMILE trial. J Am Coll Car- 25. Elscot JJ, Kakar H, Scarparo P, et al. Timing of complete multivessel re-
diol. 2016;67:264–272. vascularization in patients presenting with non-ST-segment elevation acute
5. Diletti R, den Dekker WK, Bennett J, et al. Immediate versus staged com- coronary syndrome. J Am Coll Cardiol Intv. 2024;17:771–782.
plete revascularisation in patients presenting with acute coronary syndrome
and multivessel coronary disease (BIOVASC): a prospective, open-label, 8.1. Revascularization in ACS With Cardiogenic Shock
non-inferiority, randomised trial. Lancet. 2023;401:1172–1182. 1. Scholz KH, Maier SKG, Maier LS, et al. Impact of treatment delay on mortal-
6. Reddy RK, Howard JP, Jamil Y, et al. Percutaneous coronary revasculariza- ity in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients present-
tion strategies after myocardial infarction: a systematic review and network ing with and without haemodynamic instability: results from the German pro-
meta-analysis. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2024;84:276–294. spective, multicentre FITT-STEMI trial. Eur Heart J. 2018;39:1065–1074.
7. Sels JW, Tonino PA, Siebert U, et al. Fractional flow reserve in unstable 2. Hochman JS, Sleeper LA, Webb JG, et al. Early revascularization in acute
angina and non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction experience myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock. SHOCK Investiga-
from the FAME (Fractional flow reserve versus Angiography for Multivessel tors. Should we emergently revascularize occluded coronaries for cardio-
Evaluation) study. J Am Coll Cardiol Intv. 2011;4:1183–1189. genic shock. N Engl J Med. 1999;341:625–634.
8. Layland J, Oldroyd KG, Curzen N, et al. Fractional flow reserve vs. angi- 3. Axelsson TA, Mennander A, Malmberg M, et al. Is emergency and sal-
ography in guiding management to optimize outcomes in non-ST-segment vage coronary artery bypass grafting justified? The Nordic emergency/
elevation myocardial infarction: the British Heart Foundation FAMOUS- salvage coronary artery bypass grafting study. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg.
NSTEMI randomized trial. Eur Heart J. 2015;36:100–111. 2016;49:1451–1456.
9. Lee JM, Kim HK, Park KH, et al. Fractional flow reserve versus angiogra- 4. Liakopoulos OJ, Schlachtenberger G, Wendt D, et al. Early clinical outcomes
phy-guided strategy in acute myocardial infarction with multivessel disease: of surgical myocardial revascularization for acute coronary syndromes com-
a randomized trial. Eur Heart J. 2023;44:473–484. plicated by cardiogenic shock: a report from the North-Rhine-Westphalia
10. Thiele H, Akin I, Sandri M, et al. PCI strategies in patients with acute myo- Surgical Myocardial Infarction Registry. J Am Heart Assoc. 2019;8:e012049.
cardial infarction and cardiogenic shock. N Engl J Med. 2017;377:2419– 5. Thiele H, Akin I, Sandri M, et al. PCI strategies in patients with acute myocar-
2432. dial infarction and cardiogenic shock. N Engl J Med. 2017;377:2419–2432.
11. Thiele H, Akin I, Sandri M, et al. One-year outcomes after PCI strategies in 6. Thiele H, Akin I, Sandri M, et al. One-year outcomes after PCI strategies in
cardiogenic shock. N Engl J Med. 2018;379:1699–1710. cardiogenic shock. N Engl J Med. 2018;379:1699–1710.
12. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI 7. Kolte D, Sardar P, Khera S, et al. Culprit vessel-only versus multivessel per-
guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col- cutaneous coronary intervention in patients with cardiogenic shock com-
lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical plicating ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction: a collaborative meta-
Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114. analysis. Circ Cardiovasc Interv. 2017;10:e005582.
13. Heitner JF, Senthilkumar A, Harrison JK, et al. Identifying the infarct-related 8. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI
artery in patients with non-ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction. Circ guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col-
Cardiovasc Interv. 2019;12:e007305. lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical
14. Deleted in proof. Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114.
e848 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 79 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
9. Mehta RH, Lopes RD, Ballotta A, et al. Percutaneous coronary intervention 18. Sobolev M, Slovut DP, Lee Chang A, et al. Ultrasound-guided catheterization
or coronary artery bypass surgery for cardiogenic shock and multivessel of the femoral artery: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized
coronary artery disease? Am Heart J. 2010;159:141–147. controlled trials. J Invasive Cardiol. 2015;27:318–323.
10. Hochman JS, Sleeper LA, White HD, et al. One-year survival following early 19. Jolly SS, AlRashidi S, d’Entremont MA, et al. Routine ultrasonography guid-
revascularization for cardiogenic shock. JAMA. 2001;285:190–192. ance for femoral vascular access for cardiac procedures: the UNIVERSAL
11. Hochman JS, Sleeper LA, Webb JG, et al. Early revascularization and long- randomized clinical trial. JAMA Cardiol. 2022;7:1110–1118.
term survival in cardiogenic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction. 20. Hochman JS, Sleeper LA, Webb JG, et al. Early revascularization in acute
JAMA. 2006;295:2511–2515. myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock. SHOCK Investiga-
12. Smilowitz NR, Alviar CL, Katz SD, Hochman JS. Coronary artery bypass tors. Should we emergently revascularize occluded coronaries for cardio-
grafting versus percutaneous coronary intervention for myocardial infarction genic shock. N Engl J Med. 1999;341:625–634.
complicated by cardiogenic shock. Am Heart J. 2020;226:255–263. 21. Zeymer U, Freund A, Hochadel M, et al. Venoarterial extracorporeal mem-
brane oxygenation in patients with infarct-related cardiogenic shock:
8.2. MCS in Patients With ACS and Cardiogenic Shock an individual patient data meta-analysis of randomised trials. Lancet.
1. Moller JE, Engstrom T, Jensen LO, et al. Microaxial flow pump or standard 2023;402:1338–1346.
care in infarct-related cardiogenic shock. N Engl J Med. 2024;390:1382–
1393. 9.1. Mechanical Complications
2. Ronco D, Matteucci M, Ravaux JM, et al. Mechanical circulatory support as 1. Ronco D, Matteucci M, Ravaux JM, et al. Mechanical circulatory support as
a bridge to definitive treatment in post-infarction ventricular septal rupture. a bridge to definitive treatment in post-infarction ventricular septal rupture.
J Am Coll Cardiol Intv. 2021;14:1053–1066. J Am Coll Cardiol Intv. 2021;14:1053–1066.
3. Matteucci M, Fina D, Jiritano F, et al. The use of extracorporeal membrane 2. Matteucci M, Fina D, Jiritano F, et al. The use of extracorporeal membrane
oxygenation in the setting of postinfarction mechanical complications: out- oxygenation in the setting of postinfarction mechanical complications: out-
come analysis of the Extracorporeal Life Support Organization Registry. In- come analysis of the Extracorporeal Life Support Organization Registry. In-
teract Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2020;31:369–374. teract Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2020;31:369–374.
4. Elbadawi A, Elgendy IY, Mahmoud K, et al. Temporal trends and outcomes of 3. Elbadawi A, Elgendy IY, Mahmoud K, et al. Temporal trends and outcomes of
mechanical complications in patients with acute myocardial infarction. J Am mechanical complications in patients with acute myocardial infarction. J Am
Coll Cardiol Intv. 2019;12:1825–1836. Coll Cardiol Intv. 2019;12:1825–1836.
5. Thiele H, Zeymer U, Neumann FJ, et al. Intraaortic balloon support for myo- 4. Deleted in proof.
cardial infarction with cardiogenic shock. N Engl J Med. 2012;367:1287– 5. French JK, Hellkamp AS, Armstrong PW, et al. Mechanical complications
1296. after percutaneous coronary intervention in ST-elevation myocardial infarc-
6. Thiele H, Zeymer U, Neumann FJ, et al. Intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation tion (from APEX-AMI). Am J Cardiol. 2010;105:59–63.
in acute myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock (IABP- 6. Lemery R, Smith HC, Giuliani ER, Gersh BJ. Prognosis in rupture of the
SHOCK II): final 12 month results of a randomised, open-label trial. Lancet. ventricular septum after acute myocardial infarction and role of early surgi-
2013;382:1638–1645. cal intervention. Am J Cardiol. 1992;70:147–151.
7. Thiele H, Zeymer U, Thelemann N, et al. Intraaortic balloon pump in cardio- 7. Crenshaw BS, Granger CB, Birnbaum Y, et al. Risk factors, angiographic
genic shock complicating acute myocardial infarction: long-term 6-year out- patterns, and outcomes in patients with ventricular septal defect complicat-
come of the randomized IABP-SHOCK II trial. Circulation. 2019;139:395– ing acute myocardial infarction. GUSTO-I (Global Utilization of Streptoki-
403. nase and TPA for Occluded Coronary Arteries) Trial Investigators. Circula-
8. Ostadal P, Rokyta R, Karasek J, et al. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation tion. 2000;101:27–32.
in the therapy of cardiogenic shock: results of the ECMO-CS randomized 8. Kilic A, Sultan I, Chu D, et al. Mitral valve surgery for papillary muscle rupture:
clinical trial. Circulation. 2023;147:454–464. outcomes in 1342 patients from the Society of Thoracic Surgeons data-
9. Thiele H, Zeymer U, Akin I, et al. Extracorporeal life support in infarct-related base. Ann Thorac Surg. 2020;110:1975–1981.
cardiogenic shock. N Engl J Med. 2023;389:1286–1297. 9. Matteucci M, Ronco D, Ravaux JM, et al. Surgical repair of post-infarction
10. Helgestad OKL, Josiassen J, Hassager C, et al. Temporal trends in inci- ventricular free-wall rupture in the Netherlands: data from a nationwide reg-
dence and patient characteristics in cardiogenic shock following acute myo- istry. Ann Cardiothorac Surg. 2022;11:310–318.
cardial infarction from 2010 to 2017: a Danish cohort study. Eur J Heart Fail. 10. Menon V, Webb JG, Hillis LD, et al. Outcome and profile of ventricu-
2019;21:1370–1378. lar septal rupture with cardiogenic shock after myocardial infarction:
11. Jentzer JC, van Diepen S, Barsness GW, et al. Cardiogenic shock classifica- a report from the SHOCK Trial Registry. Should we emergently revas-
tion to predict mortality in the cardiac intensive care unit. J Am Coll Cardiol. cularize occluded coronaries in cardiogenic shock? J Am Coll Cardiol.
2019;74:2117–2128. 2000;36:1110–1116.
12. Dhruva SS, Ross JS, Mortazavi BJ, et al. Association of use of an intravascu- 11. Jones BM, Kapadia SR, Smedira NG, et al. Ventricular septal rupture com-
lar microaxial left ventricular assist device vs intra-aortic balloon pump with plicating acute myocardial infarction: a contemporary review. Eur Heart J.
in-hospital mortality and major bleeding among patients with acute myocar- 2014;35:2060–2068.
dial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock. JAMA. 2020;323:734–745. 12. Sakaguchi G, Miyata H, Motomura N, et al. Surgical repair of post-infarction
13. Miller PE, Bromfield SG, Ma Q, et al. Clinical outcomes and cost as- ventricular septal defect- findings from a Japanese national database. Circ
sociated with an intravascular microaxial left ventricular assist device J. 2019;83:2229–2235.
vs intra-aortic balloon pump in patients presenting with acute myo- 13. Arnaoutakis GJ, Zhao Y, George TJ, et al. Surgical repair of ventricular septal
cardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock. JAMA Intern Med. defect after myocardial infarction: outcomes from the Society of Thoracic
2022;182:926–933. Surgeons National Database. Ann Thorac Surg. 2012;94:436–443; discus-
14. Bochaton T, Huot L, Elbaz M, et al. Mechanical circulatory support with the sion 443–434.
Impella® LP5.0 pump and an intra-aortic balloon pump for cardiogenic 14. Morimura H, Tabata M. Delayed surgery after mechanical circulatory sup-
shock in acute myocardial infarction: the IMPELLA-STIC randomized study. port for ventricular septal rupture with cardiogenic shock. Interact Cardiovasc
Arch Cardiovasc Dis. 2020;113:237–243. Thorac Surg. 2020;31:868–873.
15. Ouweneel DM, Eriksen E, Seyfarth M, Henriques JP. Percutaneous me- 15. Furui M, Sakurai Y, Kakii B, et al. Benefits and risks of delayed surgery
chanical circulatory support versus intra-aortic balloon pump for treat- for ventricular septal rupture after acute myocardial infarction. Int Heart J.
ing cardiogenic shock: meta-analysis. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2017;69:358– 2022;63:433–440.
360. 16. Schlotter F, de Waha S, Eitel I, et al. Interventional post-myocardial infarction
16. Seyfarth M, Sibbing D, Bauer I, et al. A randomized clinical trial to evaluate ventricular septal defect closure: a systematic review of current evidence.
the safety and efficacy of a percutaneous left ventricular assist device ver- EuroIntervention. 2016;12:94–102.
sus intra-aortic balloon pumping for treatment of cardiogenic shock caused 17. Giblett JP, Matetic A, Jenkins D, et al. Post-infarction ventricular septal de-
by myocardial infarction. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2008;52:1584–1588. fect: percutaneous or surgical management in the UK national registry. Eur
17. Seto AH, Abu-Fadel MS, Sparling JM, et al. Real-time ultrasound guid- Heart J. 2022;43:5020–5032.
ance facilitates femoral arterial access and reduces vascular complications: 18. Perez-Villa B, Cubeddu RJ, Brozzi N, et al. Transition to heart transplantation
FAUST (Femoral Arterial Access With Ultrasound Trial). J Am Coll Cardiol in post-myocardial infarction ventricular septal rupture: a systematic review.
Intv. 2010;3:751–758. Heart Fail Rev. 2023;28:217–227.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e849
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 80 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
19. Morrow DA, Fang JC, Fintel DJ, et al. Evolution of critical care cardiology: Multicenter Unsustained Tachycardia Trial Investigators. N Engl J Med.
transformation of the cardiovascular intensive care unit and the emerging 2000;342:1937–1945.
need for new medical staffing and training models: a scientific statement 14. Bigger JT Jr, CABG Patch Trial Investigators. Prophylactic use of implanted
from the American Heart Association. Circulation. 2012;126:1408–1428. cardiac defibrillators in patients at high risk for ventricular arrhythmias after
20. Papolos AI, Kenigsberg BB, Berg DD, et al. Management and outcomes of coronary-artery bypass graft surgery. Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG)
cardiogenic shock in cardiac ICUs with versus without shock teams. J Am Patch Trial Investigators. N Engl J Med. 1997;337:1569–1575.
Coll Cardiol. 2021;78:1309–1317. 15. Hohnloser SH, Kuck KH, Dorian P, et al. Prophylactic use of an implantable
21. Tehrani BN, Truesdell AG, Sherwood MW, et al. Standardized team-based cardioverter-defibrillator after acute myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med.
care for cardiogenic shock. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2019;73:1659–1669. 2004;351:2481–2488.
22. Slater J, Brown RJ, Antonelli TA, et al. Cardiogenic shock due to cardiac 16. Steinbeck G, Andresen D, Seidl K, et al. Defibrillator implantation early after
free-wall rupture or tamponade after acute myocardial infarction: a report myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2009;361:1427–1436.
from the SHOCK Trial Registry. Should we emergently revascularize occlud- 17. Podolecki T, Lenarczyk R, Kowalczyk J, et al. Prognostic significance of
ed coronaries for cardiogenic shock? J Am Coll Cardiol. 2000;36:1117– complex ventricular arrhythmias complicating ST-segment elevation myo-
1122. cardial infarction. Am J Cardiol. 2018;121:805–809.
23. Thompson CR, Buller CE, Sleeper LA, et al. Cardiogenic shock due to 18. Kusumoto FM, Calkins H, Boehmer J, et al. HRS/ACC/AHA expert consen-
acute severe mitral regurgitation complicating acute myocardial infarc- sus statement on the use of implantable cardioverter-defibrillator therapy
tion: a report from the SHOCK Trial Registry. Should we use emergently in patients who are not included or not well represented in clinical trials.
revascularize occluded coronaries in cardiogenic shock? J Am Coll Cardiol. Circulation. 2014;130:94–125.
2000;36:1104–1109. 19. Komatsu Y, Hocini M, Nogami A, et al. Catheter ablation of refrac-
24. Valle JA, Miyasaka RL, Carroll JD. Acute mitral regurgitation secondary to tory ventricular fibrillation storm after myocardial infarction. Circulation.
papillary muscle tear: is transcatheter edge-to-edge mitral valve repair a 2019;139:2315–2325.
new paradigm? Circ Cardiovasc Interv. 2017;10:e005050. 20. Kusumoto FM, Schoenfeld MH, Barrett C, et al. 2018 ACC/AHA/HRS
25. Thiele H, Lauer B, Hambrecht R, et al. Short and long-term hemodynamic guideline on the evaluation and management of patients with bradycardia
effects of intra-aortic balloon support in ventricular septal defect complicat- and cardiac conduction delay: a report of the American College of Cardiol-
ing acute myocardial infarction. Am J Cardiol. 2003;92:450–454. ogy/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines
26. Damluji AA, van Diepen S, Katz JN, et al. Mechanical complications of acute and the Heart Rhythm Society. Circulation. 2019;140:e382–e482.
myocardial infarction: a scientific statement from the American Heart As- 21. Olgin JE, Lee BK, Vittinghoff E, et al. Impact of wearable cardioverter-de-
sociation. Circulation. 2021;144:e16–e35. fibrillator compliance on outcomes in the VEST trial: as-treated and per-
protocol analyses. J Cardiovasc Electrophysiol. 2020;31:1009–1018.
9.2. Electrical Complications and Prevention of Sudden 22. Kim KH, Jeong MH, Ahn Y, et al. Differential clinical implications of high-
Cardiac Death After ACS degree atrioventricular block complicating ST-segment elevation myocardial
1. Moss AJ, Hall WJ, Cannom DS, et al. Improved survival with an implanted infarction according to the location of infarction in the era of primary percu-
defibrillator in patients with coronary disease at high risk for ventricular ar- taneous coronary intervention. Korean Circ J. 2016;46:315–323.
rhythmia. N Engl J Med. 1996;335:1933–1940. 23. Auffret V, Loirat A, Leurent G, et al. High-degree atrioventricular block com-
2. Moss AJ, Zareba W, Hall WJ, et al. Prophylactic implantation of a defibrillator plicating ST segment elevation myocardial infarction in the contemporary
in patients with myocardial infarction and reduced ejection fraction. N Engl era. Heart. 2016;102:40–49.
J Med. 2002;346:877–883. 24. Aguiar Rosa S, Timoteo AT, Ferreira L, et al. Complete atrioventricular block
3. Bardy GH, Lee KL, Mark DB, et al. Amiodarone or an implantable cardiovert- in acute coronary syndrome: prevalence, characterisation and implication on
er-defibrillator for congestive heart failure. N Engl J Med. 2005;352:225– outcome. Eur Heart J Acute Cardiovasc Care. 2018;7:218–223.
237. 25. Gang UJ, Hvelplund A, Pedersen S, et al. High-degree atrioventricular block
4. Buxton AE, Lee KL, Fisher JD, et al. A randomized study of the prevention complicating ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction in the era of pri-
of sudden death in patients with coronary artery disease. Multicenter Un- mary percutaneous coronary intervention. Europace. 2012;14:1639–1645.
sustained Tachycardia Trial Investigators. N Engl J Med. 1999;341:1882– 26. Alnsasra H, Ben-Avraham B, Gottlieb S, et al. High-grade atrioventricular
1890. block in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Insights from a contem-
5. Solomon SD, Zelenkofske S, McMurray JJ, et al. Sudden death in patients porary multi-center survey. J Electrocardiol. 2018;51:386–391.
with myocardial infarction and left ventricular dysfunction, heart failure, or 27. Singh SM, FitzGerald G, Yan AT, et al. High-grade atrioventricular block in
both. N Engl J Med. 2005;352:2581–2588. acute coronary syndromes: insights from the Global Registry of Acute Coro-
6. Zaman S, Sivagangabalan G, Narayan A, et al. Outcomes of early risk strati- nary Events. Eur Heart J. 2015;36:976–983.
fication and targeted implantable cardioverter-defibrillator implantation after 28. Pokorney SD, Radder C, Schulte PJ, et al. High-degree atrioventricular
ST-elevation myocardial infarction treated with primary percutaneous coro- block, asystole, and electro-mechanical dissociation complicating non-ST-
nary intervention. Circulation. 2009;120:194–200. segment elevation myocardial infarction. Am Heart J. 2016;171:25–32.
7. Olgin JE, Pletcher MJ, Vittinghoff E, et al. Wearable cardioverter-defibrillator 29. Hynes JK, Holmes DR Jr, Harrison CE. Five-year experience with temporary
after myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2018;379:1205–1215. pacemaker therapy in the coronary care unit. Mayo Clin Proc. 1983:122–126.
8. Kim H-L, Kim S-H, Seo J-B, et al. Influence of second-and third-degree
heart block on 30-day outcome following acute myocardial infarction in the 9.3. Pericarditis Management After MI
drug-eluting stent era. Am J Cardiol. 2014;114:1658–1662. 1. Gouriet F, Levy PY, Casalta JP, et al. Etiology of pericarditis in a prospective
9. Wang P, Wang S, Liu Z, et al. Prognostic value of temporary pacemaker cohort of 1162 cases. Am J Med. 2015;128:784.e781–e788.
insertion in patients with acute myocardial infarction in the era of percutane- 2. Imazio M, Brucato A, Rovere ME, et al. Contemporary features, risk fac-
ous coronary revascularization. Rev Cardiovasc Med. 2023;24:179. tors, and prognosis of the post-pericardiotomy syndrome. Am J Cardiol.
10. Joglar JA, Chung MK, Armbruster AL, et al. 2023 ACC/AHA/ACCP/ 2011;108:1183–1187.
HRS guideline for the diagnosis and management of atrial fibrillation: 3. Imazio M, Negro A, Belli R, et al. Frequency and prognostic significance of
a report of the American College of ardiology/American Heart As- pericarditis following acute myocardial infarction treated by primary percu-
sociation Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation. taneous coronary intervention. Am J Cardiol. 2009;103:1525–1529.
2024;149:e1–e156. 4. Berman J, Haffajee CI, Alpert JS. Therapy of symptomatic pericarditis
11. Thomsen AF, Jacobsen PK, Koeber L, et al. Risk of arrhythmias after myo- after myocardial infarction: retrospective and prospective studies of as-
cardial infarction in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction accord- pirin, indomethacin, prednisone, and spontaneous resolution. Am Heart J.
ing to mode of revascularization: a Cardiac Arrhythmias and RIsk Strati- 1981;101:750–753.
fication after Myocardial infArction (CARISMA) substudy. EP: Europace. 5. Imazio M, Bobbio M, Cecchi E, et al. Colchicine as first-choice therapy for
2021;23:616–623. recurrent pericarditis: results of the CORE (COlchicine for REcurrent peri-
12. Rymer JA, Wegermann ZK, Wang TY, et al. Ventricular arrhythmias after carditis) trial. Arch Intern Med. 2005;165:1987–1991.
primary percutaneous coronary intervention for STEMI. JAMA Netw Open. 6. Imazio M, Brucato A, Cemin R, et al. Colchicine for recurrent pericarditis
2024;7:e2410288. (CORP): a randomized trial. Ann Intern Med. 2011;155:409–414.
13. Buxton AE, Lee KL, DiCarlo L, et al. Electrophysiologic testing to identify 7. Imazio M, Belli R, Brucato A, et al. Efficacy and safety of colchicine for treat-
patients with coronary artery disease who are at risk for sudden death. ment of multiple recurrences of pericarditis (CORP-2): a multicentre, dou-
e850 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 81 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
ble-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised trial. Lancet. 2014;383:2232– 6. Rao SV, Jollis JG, Harrington RA, et al. Relationship of blood transfusion
2237. and clinical outcomes in patients with acute coronary syndromes. JAMA.
8. Imazio M, Brucato A, Cemin R, et al. A randomized trial of colchicine for 2004;292:1555–1562.
acute pericarditis. N Engl J Med. 2013;369:1522–1528. 7. Alexander KP, Chen AY, Wang TY, et al. Transfusion practice and outcomes
9. Imazio M, Bobbio M, Cecchi E, et al. Colchicine in addition to conventional in non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes. Am Heart J.
therapy for acute pericarditis: results of the COlchicine for acute PEricardi- 2008;155:1047–1053.
tis (COPE) trial. Circulation. 2005;112:2012–2016. 8. Yang X, Alexander KP, Chen AY, et al. The implications of blood transfusions
10. Meurin P, Tabet JY, Thabut G, et al. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug for patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes: re-
treatment for postoperative pericardial effusion: a multicenter randomized, sults from the CRUSADE National Quality Improvement Initiative. J Am Coll
double-blind trial. Ann Intern Med. 2010;152:137–143. Cardiol. 2005;46:1490–1495.
11. Meurin P, Lelay-Kubas S, Pierre B, et al. Colchicine for postoperative peri- 9. Carson JL, Stanworth SJ, Dennis JA, et al. Transfusion thresholds for
cardial effusion: a multicentre, double-blind, randomised controlled trial. guiding red blood cell transfusion. Cochrane Database Sys Review.
Heart. 2015;101:1711–1716. 2021;12:CD002042.
12. Bulkley BH, Roberts WC. Steroid therapy during acute myocardial infarc- 10. Carson JL, Stanworth SJ, Guyatt G, et al. Red blood cell transfusion: 2023
tion. A cause of delayed healing and of ventricular aneurysm. Am J Med. AABB international guidelines. JAMA. 2023;330:1892–1902.
1974;56:244–250. 11. Carson JL, Stanworth SJ, Alexander JH, et al. Clinical trials evaluating
13. Silverman HS, Pfeifer MP. Relation between use of anti-inflammatory red blood cell transfusion thresholds: an updated systematic review and
agents and left ventricular free wall rupture during acute myocardial infarc- with additional focus on patients with cardiovascular disease. Am Heart J.
tion. Am J Cardiol. 1987;59:363–364. 2018;200:96–101.
12. Ducrocq G, Gonzalez-Juanatey JR, Puymirat E, et al. Effect of a restrictive
9.4. Management of LV Thrombus After MI vs liberal blood transfusion strategy on major cardiovascular events among
1. Camaj A, Fuster V, Giustino G, et al. Left ventricular thrombus following patients with acute myocardial infarction and anemia: the REALITY random-
acute myocardial infarction: JACC state-of-the-art review. J Am Coll Cardiol. ized clinical trial. JAMA 2021;325:552–560.
2022;79:1010–1022. 13. Gonzalez-Juanatey JR, Lemesle G, Puymirat E, et al. One-year major cardio-
2. Bulluck H, Chan MHH, Paradies V, et al. Incidence and predictors of left vascular events after restrictive versus liberal blood transfusion strategy in
ventricular thrombus by cardiovascular magnetic resonance in acute ST- patients with acute myocardial infarction and anemia: the REALITY random-
segment elevation myocardial infarction treated by primary percutane- ized trial. Circulation. 2022;145:486–488.
ous coronary intervention: a meta-analysis. J Cardiovasc Magn Reson.
2018;20:72. 10.3. Telemetry and Length of Stay
3. McCarthy CP, Vaduganathan M, McCarthy KJ, et al. Left ventricular throm- 1. Piccini JP, White JA, Mehta RH, et al. Sustained ventricular tachycardia and
bus after acute myocardial infarction: screening, prevention, and treatment. ventricular fibrillation complicating non-ST-segment-elevation acute coro-
JAMA Cardiol. 2018;3:642–649. nary syndromes. Circulation. 2012;126:41–49.
4. Massussi M, Scotti A, Lip GYH, et al. Left ventricular thrombosis: new 2. Rymer JA, Wegermann ZK, Wang TY, et al. Ventricular arrhythmias after
perspectives on an old problem. Eur Heart J Cardiovasc Pharmacother. primary percutaneous coronary intervention for STEMI. JAMA Netw Open.
2021;7:158–167. 2024;7:e2410288.
5. Gellen B, Biere L, Logeart D, et al. Timing of cardiac magnetic reso- 3. De Luca G, Suryapranata H, van ‘t Hof AW, et al. Prognostic assessment of
nance imaging impacts on the detection rate of left ventricular throm- patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with primary angioplasty:
bus after myocardial infarction. J Am Coll Cardiol Img. 2017;10:1404– implications for early discharge. Circulation. 2004;109:2737–2743.
1405. 4. Wasfy JH, Kennedy KF, Masoudi FA, et al. Predicting length of stay and
6. Levine GN, McEvoy JW, Fang JC, et al. Management of patients at risk for the need for postacute care after acute myocardial infarction to improve
and with left ventricular thrombus: a scientific statement from the American healthcare efficiency. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2018;11:e004635.
Heart Association. Circulation. 2022;146:e205–e223. 5. Jones DA, Rathod KS, Howard JP, et al. Safety and feasibility of hospital dis-
charge 2 days following primary percutaneous intervention for ST-segment
10.1. Cardiac Intensive Care Unit elevation myocardial infarction. Heart. 2012;98:1722–1727.
1. Winkler C, Funk M, Schindler DM, et al. Arrhythmias in patients with acute 6. Melberg T, Jorgensen M, Orn S, et al. Safety and health status following
coronary syndrome in the first 24 hours of hospitalization. Heart Lung. early discharge in patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with pri-
2013;42:422–427. mary PCI: a randomized trial. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2015;22:1427–1434.
2. Wasfy JH, Kennedy KF, Masoudi FA, et al. Predicting length of stay 7. Grines CL, Marsalese DL, Brodie B, et al. Safety and cost-effectiveness
and the need for postacute care after acute myocardial infarction of early discharge after primary angioplasty in low risk patients with acute
to improve healthcare efficiency. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. myocardial infarction. PAMI-II Investigators. Primary Angioplasty in Myocar-
2018;11:e004635. dial Infarction. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1998;31:967–972.
3. Fanaroff AC, Chen AY, Thomas LE, et al. Risk score to predict need 8. Seto AH, Shroff A, Abu-Fadel M, et al. Length of stay following percutane-
for intensive care in initially hemodynamically stable adults with non- ous coronary intervention: an expert consensus document update from the
ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction. J Am Heart Assoc. society for cardiovascular angiography and interventions. Catheter Cardio-
2018;7:e008894. vasc Interv. 2018;92:717–731.
9. Hariri E, Kassas I, Hammoud MA, et al. Same day discharge following non-
10.2. Management of Anemia in ACS
elective PCI for non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes. Am Heart J.
1. Carson JL, Brooks MM, Hebert PC, et al. Restrictive or liberal trans- 2022;246:125–135.
fusion strategy in myocardial infarction and anemia. N Engl J Med. 10. Pelter MM, Adams MG, Drew BJ. Transient myocardial ischemia is an inde-
2023;389:2446–2456. pendent predictor of adverse in-hospital outcomes in patients with acute
2. Vicente-Ibarra N, Marin F, Pernias-Escrig V, et al. Impact of anemia as risk coronary syndromes treated in the telemetry unit. Heart Lung. 2003;32:71–
factor for major bleeding and mortality in patients with acute coronary syn- 78.
drome. Eur J Intern Med. 2019;61:48–53. 11. Rahimi K, Watzlawek S, Thiele H, et al. Incidence, time course, and predic-
3. Younge JO, Nauta ST, Akkerhuis KM, et al. Effect of anemia on short- and tors of early malignant ventricular arrhythmias after non-ST-segment eleva-
long-term outcome in patients hospitalized for acute coronary syndromes. tion myocardial infarction in patients with early invasive treatment. Eur Heart
Am J Cardiol. 2012;109:506–510. J. 2006;27:1706–1711.
4. Brener SJ, Mehran R, Dangas GD, et al. Relation of baseline hemoglobin 12. Ottander P, Nilsson JB, Jensen SM, Naslund U. Ischemic ST-segment epi-
levels and adverse events in patients with acute coronary syndromes (from sodes during the initial 24 hours of ST elevation myocardial infarction pre-
the Acute Catheterization and Urgent Intervention Triage strategY and Har- dict prognosis at 1 and 5 years. J Electrocardiol. 2010;43:224–229.
monizing Outcomes with RevasculariZatiON and Stents in Acute Myocardial 13. Falun N, Nordrehaug JE, Hoff PI, et al. Evaluation of the appropriate-
Infarction Trials). Am J Cardiol. 2017;119:1710–1716. ness and outcome of in-hospital telemetry monitoring. Am J Cardiol.
5. Chatterjee S, Wetterslev J, Sharma A, et al. Association of blood transfusion 2013;112:1219–1223.
with increased mortality in myocardial infarction: a meta-analysis and diver- 14. Sandau KE, Funk M, Auerbach A, et al. Update to practice standards for
sity-adjusted study sequential analysis. JAMA Intern Med. 2013;173:132– electrocardiographic monitoring in hospital settings: a scientific statement
139. from the American Heart Association. Circulation. 2017;136:e273–e344.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e851
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 82 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
10.4. Noninvasive Diagnostic Testing Prior to Hospital 8. American Heart Association. Acute Myocardial Infarction Toolkit. Accessed
Discharge September 16, 2023. https://www.heart.org/en/health-topics/heart-attack/
heart-attack-tools-and-resources/acute-myocardial-infarction-toolkit. 1. Daneault B, Genereux P, Kirtane AJ, et al. Comparison of three-year out-
9. Bettger JP, Alexander KP, Dolor RJ, et al. Transitional care after hospitaliza-
comes after primary percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with left
tion for acute stroke or myocardial infarction: a systematic review. Ann Intern
ventricular ejection fraction <40% versus ≥ 40% (from the HORIZONS-
Med. 2012;157:407–416.
AMI trial). Am J Cardiol. 2013;111:12–20.
10. Albert N, Gluckman, TJ, McNamara, R, et al. Abstract 102: the association
2. Dokainish H, Rajaram M, Prabhakaran D, et al. Incremental value of left ven-
of patient navigator program features and hospital strategies with pro-
tricular systolic and diastolic function to determine outcome in patients with
cesses and outcome metrics in acute myocardial infarction and heart fail-
acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: the echocardiographic
ure. 2019. Accessed September 23, 2023. https://www.ahajournals.org/
substudy of the OASIS-6 trial. Echocardiography. 2014;31:569–578.
doi/10.1161/hcq.12.suppl_1.102.
3. Ng VG, Lansky AJ, Meller S, et al. The prognostic importance of left ven-
11. Hoo JX, Yang YF, Tan JY, et al. Impact of multicomponent integrated care on
tricular function in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction:
mortality and hospitalization after acute coronary syndrome: a systematic re-
the HORIZONS-AMI trial. Eur Heart J Acute Cardiovasc Care. 2014;3:67–
view and meta-analysis. Eur Heart J Qual Care Clin Outcomes. 2023;9:258–
77.
267.
4. Damluji AA, van Diepen S, Katz JN, et al. Mechanical complications of acute
12. Virani SS, Newby LK, Arnold SV, et al. 2023 AHA/ACC/ACCP/ASPC/
myocardial infarction: a scientific statement from the American Heart As-
NLA/PCNA guideline for the management of patients with chronic coro-
sociation. Circulation. 2021;144:e16–e35.
nary disease: a report of the American Heart Association/American College
5. McCarthy CP, Vaduganathan M, McCarthy KJ, et al. Left ventricular throm-
of Cardiology Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation.
bus after acute myocardial infarction: screening, prevention, and treatment.
2023;148:e9–e119.
JAMA Cardiol. 2018;3:642–649.
6. Ibanez B, Aletras AH, Arai AE, et al. Cardiac MRI endpoints in myocardial 10.5.3. Cardiac Rehabilitation
infarction experimental and clinical trials: JACC Scientific Expert Panel. J
1. Dibben G, Faulkner J, Oldridge N, et al. Exercise-based cardiac re-
Am Coll Cardiol. 2019;74:238–256.
habilitation for coronary heart disease. Cochrane Database Syst Rev.
7. Pontone G, Guaricci AI, Andreini D, et al. Prognostic stratification of patients
2021;11:CD001800.
with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (PROSPECT): a cardiac
2. Anderson L, Oldridge N, Thompson DR, et al. Exercise-based cardiac reha-
magnetic resonance study. Circ Cardiovasc Imaging. 2017;10:e006428.
bilitation for coronary heart disease: Cochrane systematic review and meta-
8. Bulluck H, Dharmakumar R, Arai AE, et al. Cardiovascular magnetic reso-
analysis. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2016;67:1–12.
nance in acute ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction: recent advanc-
3. Anderson L, Thompson DR, Oldridge N, et al. Exercise-based cardiac
es, controversies, and future directions. Circulation. 2018;137:1949–1964.
rehabilitation for coronary heart disease. Cochrane Database Syst Rev.
9. Tamis-Holland JE, Jneid H, Reynolds HR, et al. Contemporary diagnosis and
2016;2016:CD001800.
management of patients with myocardial infarction in the absence of ob-
4. Dibben GO, Faulkner J, Oldridge N, et al. Exercise-based cardiac rehabilita-
structive coronary artery disease: a scientific statement from the American
tion for coronary heart disease: a meta-analysis. Eur Heart J. 2023;44:452– Heart Association. Circulation. 2019;139:e891–e908.
469.
5. Snoek JA, Prescott EI, van der Velde AE, et al. Effectiveness of home-based
10.5.1. Patient Education
mobile guided cardiac rehabilitation as alternative strategy for nonparticipa-
1. Kourbelis CM, Marin TS, Foote J, et al. Effectiveness of discharge educa-
tion in clinic-based cardiac rehabilitation among elderly patients in Europe:
tion strategies versus usual care on clinical outcomes in acute coronary
a randomized clinical trial. JAMA Cardiol. 2021;6:463–468.
syndrome patients: a systematic review. JBI Evid Synth. 2020;18:309–331.
6. Li Z, Hui Z, Zheng Y, et al. Efficacy of phase II remote home rehabilitation in
2. Feng YY, Chaves GSS, Shi W, et al. Education interventions in Chinese car-
patients with acute myocardial infarction after percutaneous coronary inter-
diac patients on health behaviours, disease-related knowledge, and health
vention. Contrast Media Mol Imaging. 2022;2022:4634769.
outcomes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Patient Educ Couns.
7. Campo G, Tonet E, Chiaranda G, et al. Exercise intervention improves quality
2021;104:1018–1029.
of life in older adults after myocardial infarction: randomised clinical trial.
3. Shi W, Ghisi GLM, Zhang L, et al. Systematic review, meta-analysis and
Heart. 2020;106:1658–1664.
meta-regression to determine the effects of patient education on health
8. Ritchey MD, Maresh S, McNeely J, et al. Tracking cardiac rehabilitation par-
behaviour change in adults diagnosed with coronary heart disease. J Clin
ticipation and completion among Medicare beneficiaries to inform the efforts
Nurs. 2023;32:5300–5327.
of a national initiative. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2020;13:e005902.
4. Piekarz H, Langran C, Raza A, Donyai P. Medication-taking for secondary
9. Schultz WM, Kelli HM, Lisko JC, et al. Socioeconomic status and cardiovas-
prevention of acute myocardial infarction: a thematic meta-synthesis of pa-
cular outcomes: challenges and interventions. Circulation. 2018;137:2166–
tient experiences. Open Heart. 2022;9:e001939.
2178.
5. American Heart Association. Life’s Essential 8. Accessed September, 2023.
10. Takura T, Ebata-Kogure N, Goto Y, et al. Cost-effectiveness of cardiac re-
https://www.heart.org/en/healthy-living/healthy-lifestyle/lifes-essential-8.
habilitation in patients with coronary artery disease: a meta-analysis. Cardiol
Res Pract. 2019;2019:1840894.
10.5.2. Postdischarge Follow-Up and Systems of Care
11. McMahon SR, Ades PA, Thompson PD. The role of cardiac rehabilitation in
Coordination patients with heart disease. Trends Cardiovasc Med. 2017;27:420–425.
1. Dreyer RP, Dharmarajan K, Kennedy KF, et al. Sex differences in 1-year 12. Grace SL, Russell KL, Reid RD, et al. Effect of cardiac rehabilitation referral
all-cause rehospitalization in patients after acute myocardial infarction: a strategies on utilization rates: a prospective, controlled study. Arch Intern
prospective observational study. Circulation. 2017;135:521–531. Med. 2011;171:235–241.
2. O’Brien C, Valsdottir L, Wasfy JH, et al. Comparison of 30-day readmis- 13. Thomas RJ, Beatty AL, Beckie TM, et al. Home-based cardiac rehabilitation:
sion rates after hospitalization for acute myocardial infarction in men versus a scientific statement from the American Association of Cardiovascular and
women. Am J Cardiol. 2017;120:1070–1076. Pulmonary Rehabilitation, the American Heart Association, and the Ameri-
3. Cholack G, Garfein J, Krallman R, et al. Predictors of early (0-7 days) and can College of Cardiology. Circulation. 2019;140:e69–e89.
late (8-30 days) readmission in a cohort of acute coronary syndrome pa- 14. Nkonde-Price C, Reynolds K, Najem M, et al. Comparison of home-based vs
tients. Int J Med Stud. 2022;10:38–48. center-based cardiac rehabilitation in hospitalization, medication adherence,
4. Boulos PK, Messenger JC, Waldo SW. Readmission after ACS: burden, epi- and risk factor control among patients with cardiovascular disease. JAMA
demiology, and mitigation. Curr Cardiol Rep. 2022;24:807–815. Netw Open. 2022;5:e2228720.
5. Oliveira L, Costa I, Silva DGD, et al. Readmission of patients with acute 15. Huang K, Liu W, He D, et al. Telehealth interventions versus center-based
coronary syndrome and determinants. Arq Bras Cardiol. 2019;113:42–49. cardiac rehabilitation of coronary artery disease: a systematic review and
6. Gudnadottir GS, Gudnason T, Wilhelmson K, et al. Multimorbidity and re- meta-analysis. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2015;22:959–971.
admissions in older people with acute coronary syndromes. Cardiology. 16. Zeng W, Stason WB, Fournier S, et al. Benefits and costs of intensive life-
2022;147:121–132. style modification programs for symptomatic coronary disease in Medicare
7. American College of Cardiology. Hospital to Home Initiative: Quality Cam- beneficiaries. Am Heart J. 2013;165:785–792.
paign. Accessed September 18, 2023. https://cvquality.acc.org/initiatives/ 17. Freeman AM, Taub PR, Lo HC, Ornish D. Intensive cardiac rehabilitation: an
hospital-to-home. underutilized resource. Curr Cardiol Rep. 2019;21:19.
e852 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 83 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
18. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Intensive Cardiac Rehabilita- 9. Hong SJ, Lee SJ, Suh Y, et al. Stopping aspirin within 1 month after stenting
tion (ICR) Programs. Accessed October 10, 2024. https://www.cms.gov/ for ticagrelor monotherapy in acute coronary syndrome: the T-PASS ran-
medicare/coverage/approved-facilities-trials-registries/cardiac-rehab- domized noninferiority trial. Circulation. 2023;149:562–573.
programs. 10. Kim BK, Hong SJ, Cho YH, et al. Effect of ticagrelor monotherapy vs ti-
19. Racette SB, Park LK, Rashdi ST, et al. Benefits of the first Pritikin out- cagrelor with aspirin on major bleeding and cardiovascular events in pa-
patient intensive cardiac rehabilitation program. J Cardiopulm Rehabil Prev. tients with acute coronary syndrome: the TICO randomized clinical trial.
2022;42:449–455. JAMA. 2020;323:2407–2416.
20. Husaini M, Deych E, Waken RJ, et al. Intensive versus traditional car- 11. Vranckx P, Valgimigli M, Odutayo A, et al. Efficacy and safety of ticagrelor
diac rehabilitation: mortality and cardiovascular outcomes in a 2016- monotherapy by clinical presentation: pre-specified analysis of the GLOBAL
2020 retrospective Medicare cohort. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. LEADERS trial. J Am Heart Assoc. 2021;10:e015560.
2023;16:e010131. 12. Ahn HJ, Lee SR, Choi EK, et al. Protective effect of proton-pump inhibitor
21. Dibben GO, Dalal HM, Taylor RS, et al. Cardiac rehabilitation and physi- against gastrointestinal bleeding in patients receiving oral anticoagulants: a
cal activity: systematic review and meta-analysis. Heart. 2018;104:1394– systematic review and meta-analysis. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2022;88:4676–
1402. 4687.
22. de Vries H, Kemps HM, van Engen-Verheul MM, et al. Cardiac rehabilitation 13. Bhatt DL, Cryer BL, Contant CF, et al. Clopidogrel with or without omepra-
and survival in a large representative community cohort of Dutch patients. zole in coronary artery disease. N Engl J Med. 2010;363:1909–1917.
Eur Heart J. 2015;36:1519–1528. 14. Lai KC, Lam SK, Chu KM, et al. Lansoprazole for the prevention of recur-
23. Williams MA, Maresh CM, Esterbrooks DJ, et al. Early exercise training in rences of ulcer complications from long-term low-dose aspirin use. N Engl J
patients older than age 65 years compared with that in younger patients Med. 2002;346:2033–2038.
after acute myocardial infarction or coronary artery bypass grafting. Am J 15. Moayyedi P, Eikelboom JW, Bosch J, et al. Pantoprazole to prevent gas-
Cardiol. 1985;55:263–266. troduodenal events in patients receiving rivaroxaban and/or aspirin in
24. Lavie CJ, Milani RV. Effects of cardiac rehabilitation programs on exercise a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Gastroenterology.
capacity, coronary risk factors, behavioral characteristics, and quality of life 2019;157:403–412.e405.
in a large elderly cohort. Am J Cardiol. 1995;76:177–179. 16. Cayla G, Cuisset T, Silvain J, et al. Platelet function monitoring to adjust an-
25. Lavie CJ, Milani RV, Littman AB. Benefits of cardiac rehabilitation and ex- tiplatelet therapy in elderly patients stented for an acute coronary syndrome
ercise training in secondary coronary prevention in the elderly. J Am Coll (ANTARCTIC): an open-label, blinded-endpoint, randomised controlled su-
Cardiol. 1993;22:678–683. periority trial. Lancet. 2016;388:2015–2022.
26. Stahle A, Mattsson E, Ryden L, et al. Improved physical fitness and quality 17. Claassens DMF, Vos GJA, Bergmeijer TO, et al. A genotype-guided strategy
of life following training of elderly patients after acute coronary events. A 1 for oral P2Y12 inhibitors in primary PCI. N Engl J Med. 2019;381:1621–
year follow-up randomized controlled study. Eur Heart J. 1999;20:1475– 1631.
1484. 18. Cuisset T, Deharo P, Quilici J, et al. Benefit of switching dual antiplatelet
27. Beatty AL, Truong M, Schopfer DW, et al. Geographic variation in cardiac therapy after acute coronary syndrome: the TOPIC (Timing of Platelet In-
rehabilitation participation in Medicare and Veterans Affairs populations: op- hibition After Acute Coronary Syndrome) randomized study. Eur Heart J.
portunity for improvement. Circulation. 2018;137:1899–1908. 2017;38:3070–3078.
28. Li S, Fonarow GC, Mukamal K, et al. Sex and racial disparities in cardiac 19. Kim CJ, Park MW, Kim MC, et al. Unguided de-escalation from ticagrelor
rehabilitation referral at hospital discharge and gaps in long-term mortality. to clopidogrel in stabilised patients with acute myocardial infarction under-
J Am Heart Assoc. 2018;7:e008088. going percutaneous coronary intervention (TALOS-AMI): an investigator-
29. McDonagh ST, Dalal H, Moore S, et al. Home-based versus centre-based initiated, open-label, multicentre, non-inferiority, randomised trial. Lancet.
cardiac rehabilitation. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2023;10:CD007130. 2021;398:1305–1316.
30. Sandesara PB, Lambert CT, Gordon NF, et al. Cardiac rehabilitation 20. Sibbing D, Aradi D, Jacobshagen C, et al. Guided de-escalation of antiplate-
and risk reduction: time to “rebrand and reinvigorate”. J Am Coll Cardiol. let treatment in patients with acute coronary syndrome undergoing percu-
2015;65:389–395. taneous coronary intervention (TROPICAL-ACS): a randomised, open-label,
multicentre trial. Lancet. 2017;390:1747–1757.
11.1. DAPT Strategies in the First 12 Months 21. Valgimigli M, Frigoli E, Heg D, et al. Dual antiplatelet therapy after PCI in
Postdischarge patients at high bleeding risk. N Engl J Med. 2021;385:1643–1655.
1. Wallentin L, Becker RC, Budaj A, et al. Ticagrelor versus clopidogrel in 22. Mehran R, Baber U, Steg PG, et al. Cessation of dual antiplatelet treatment
patients with acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. 2009;361:1045– and cardiac events after percutaneous coronary intervention (PARIS): 2 year
1057. results from a prospective observational study. Lancet. 2013;382:1714–
2. Wiviott SD, Braunwald E, McCabe CH, et al. Prasugrel versus clopidogrel in 1722.
patients with acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. 2007;357:2001– 23. Valgimigli M, Costa F, Lokhnygina Y, et al. Trade-off of myocardial infarc-
2015. tion vs. bleeding types on mortality after acute coronary syndrome: les-
3. Yusuf S, Zhao F, Mehta SR, et al. Effects of clopidogrel in addition to aspirin sons from the Thrombin Receptor Antagonist for Clinical Event Reduction
in patients with acute coronary syndromes without ST-segment elevation. N in Acute Coronary Syndrome (TRACER) randomized trial. Eur Heart J.
Engl J Med. 2001;345:494–502. 2017;38:804–810.
4. Fox KA, Mehta SR, Peters R, et al. Benefits and risks of the combination 24. Baber U, Mehran R, Giustino G, et al. Coronary thrombosis and major bleed-
of clopidogrel and aspirin in patients undergoing surgical revascularization ing after PCI with drug-eluting stents: risk scores from PARIS. J Am Coll
for non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome: the Clopidogrel in Unsta- Cardiol. 2016;67:2224–2234.
ble angina to prevent Recurrent ischemic Events (CURE) Trial. Circulation. 25. Costa F, van Klaveren D, James S, et al. Derivation and validation of the
2004;110:1202–1208. predicting bleeding complications in patients undergoing stent implanta-
5. Held C, Asenblad N, Bassand JP, et al. Ticagrelor versus clopidogrel in pa- tion and subsequent dual antiplatelet therapy (PRECISE-DAPT) score: a
tients with acute coronary syndromes undergoing coronary artery bypass pooled analysis of individual-patient datasets from clinical trials. Lancet.
surgery: results from the PLATO (Platelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes) 2017;389:1025–1034.
trial. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2011;57:672–684. 26. Urban P, Mehran R, Colleran R, et al. Defining high bleeding risk in pa-
6. Smith PK, Goodnough LT, Levy JH, et al. Mortality benefit with prasugrel in tients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. Circulation.
the TRITON-TIMI 38 coronary artery bypass grafting cohort: risk-adjusted 2019;140:240–261.
retrospective data analysis. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2012;60:388–396. 27. Yeh RW, Secemsky EA, Kereiakes DJ, et al. Development and validation of
7. Baber U, Dangas G, Angiolillo DJ, et al. Ticagrelor alone vs. ticagrelor plus a prediction rule for benefit and harm of dual antiplatelet therapy beyond
aspirin following percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with non- 1 year after percutaneous coronary intervention. JAMA. 2016;315:1735–
ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes: TWILIGHT-ACS. Eur 1749.
Heart J. 2020;41:3533–3545. 28. Hahn JY, Song YB, Oh JH, et al. Effect of P2Y12 inhibitor monotherapy vs
8. Ge Z, Kan J, Gao X, et al. Ticagrelor alone versus ticagrelor plus aspi- dual antiplatelet therapy on cardiovascular events in patients undergoing
rin from month 1 to month 12 after percutaneous coronary interven- percutaneous coronary intervention: the SMART-CHOICE randomized clini-
tion in patients with acute coronary syndromes (ULTIMATE-DAPT): cal trial. JAMA. 2019;321:2428–2437.
a randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trial. Lancet. 29. Watanabe H, Morimoto T, Natsuaki M, et al. Comparison of clopidogrel
2024;403:1866–1878. monotherapy after 1 to 2 months of dual antiplatelet therapy with 12
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e853
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 84 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
months of dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with acute coronary syn- insights from the platelet inhibition and patient outcomes trial. Circulation.
drome: the STOPDAPT-2 ACS randomized clinical trial. JAMA Cardiol. 2012;125:978–986.
2022;7:407–417. 50. Storey RF, Angiolillo DJ, Patil SB, et al. Inhibitory effects of ticagrelor com-
30. Gurbel PA, Bliden KP, Hiatt BL, O’Connor CM. Clopidogrel for coronary pared with clopidogrel on platelet function in patients with acute coronary
stenting: response variability, drug resistance, and the effect of pretreat- syndromes: the PLATO (PLATelet inhibition and patient Outcomes) PLATE-
ment platelet reactivity. Circulation. 2003;107:2908–2913. LET substudy. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2010;56:1456–1462.
31. De Luca G, Damen SA, Camaro C, et al. Final results of the randomised 51. Capodanno D, Mehran R, Krucoff MW, et al. Defining strategies of mod-
evaluation of short-term dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with acute ulation of antiplatelet therapy in patients with coronary artery disease: a
coronary syndrome treated with a new-generation stent (REDUCE trial). consensus document from the Academic Research Consortium. Circulation.
EuroIntervention. 2019;15:e990–e998. 2023;147:1933–1944.
32. Hahn JY, Song YB, Oh JH, et al. 6-month versus 12-month or longer dual 52. Mega JL, Close SL, Wiviott SD, et al. Cytochrome p-450 polymorphisms and
antiplatelet therapy after percutaneous coronary intervention in patients response to clopidogrel. N Engl J Med. 2009;360:354–362.
with acute coronary syndrome (SMART-DATE): a randomised, open-label, 53. Galli M, Benenati S, Capodanno D, et al. Guided versus standard antiplatelet
non-inferiority trial. Lancet. 2018;391:1274–1284. therapy in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention: a sys-
33. Merlini PA, Bauer KA, Oltrona L, et al. Persistent activation of coagula- tematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet. 2021;397:1470–1483.
tion mechanism in unstable angina and myocardial infarction. Circulation. 54. Tavenier AH, Mehran R, Chiarito M, et al. Guided and unguided de-escala-
1994;90:61–68. tion from potent P2Y12 inhibitors among patients with acute coronary syn-
34. Yusuf S, Mehta SR, Zhao F, et al. Early and late effects of clopidogrel in drome: a meta-analysis. Eur Heart J Cardiovasc Pharmacother. 2022;8:492–
patients with acute coronary syndromes. Circulation. 2003;107:966–972. 502.
35. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI 55. Bonaca MP, Bhatt DL, Cohen M, et al. Long-term use of ticagrelor in pa-
guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col- tients with prior myocardial infarction. New Engl J Med. 2015;372:1791–
lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical 1800.
Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114. 56. Smits PC, Frigoli E, Vranckx P, et al. Abbreviated antiplatelet therapy after
36. Bittl JA, Baber U, Bradley SM, Wijeysundera DN. Duration of dual antiplate- coronary stenting in patients with myocardial infarction at high bleeding risk.
let therapy: a systematic review for the 2016 ACC/AHA guideline focused J Am Coll Cardiol. 2022;80:1220–1237.
update on duration of dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with coronary
artery disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American 11.1.1. Antiplatelet Therapy in Patients on Anticoagulation
Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation. Postdischarge
2016;134:e156–e178. 1. Cannon CP, Bhatt DL, Oldgren J, et al. Dual antithrombotic therapy with
37. Mauri L, Kereiakes DJ, Yeh RW, et al. Twelve or 30 months of dual antiplate- dabigatran after PCI in atrial fibrillation. N Engl J Med. 2017;377:1513–
let therapy after drug-eluting stents. N Engl J Med. 2014;371:2155–2166. 1524.
38. O’Donoghue ML, Murphy SA, Sabatine MS. The safety and efficacy of as- 2. Gibson CM, Mehran R, Bode C, et al. Prevention of bleeding in patients with
pirin discontinuation on a background of a P2Y12inhibitor in patients after atrial fibrillation undergoing PCI. N Engl J Med. 2016;375:2423–2434.
percutaneous coronary intervention: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 3. Lopes RD, Heizer G, Aronson R, et al. Antithrombotic therapy after
Circulation. 2020;142:538–545. acute coronary syndrome or PCI in atrial fibrillation. New Engl J Med.
39. Baber U, Jang Y, Oliva A, et al. Safety and efficacy of ticagrelor monotherapy 2019;380:1509–1524.
in patients with acute coronary syndromes undergoing percutaneous coro- 4. Vranckx P, Valgimigli M, Eckardt L, et al. Edoxaban-based versus vitamin K
nary intervention: an individual patient data meta-analysis of TWILIGHT and antagonist-based antithrombotic regimen after successful coronary stent-
TICO randomized trials. Circulation. 2024;149:574–584. ing in patients with atrial fibrillation (ENTRUST-AF PCI): a randomised,
40. Valgimigli M, Gragnano F, Branca M, et al. P2Y12 inhibitor monotherapy or open-label, phase 3b trial. Lancet. 2019;394:1335–1343.
dual antiplatelet therapy after coronary revascularisation: individual patient 5. Dewilde WJ, Oirbans T, Verheugt FW, et al. Use of clopidogrel with or without
level meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. BMJ. 2021;373:n1332. aspirin in patients taking oral anticoagulant therapy and undergoing percu-
41. Valgimigli M, Gragnano F, Branca M, et al. Ticagrelor or clopidogrel mono- taneous coronary intervention: an open-label, randomised, controlled trial.
therapy vs dual antiplatelet therapy after percutaneous coronary interven- Lancet. 2013;381:1107–1115.
tion: a systematic review and patient-level meta-analysis. JAMA Cardiol. 6. Lawton JS, Tamis-Holland JE, Bangalore S, et al. 2021 ACC/AHA/SCAI
2024;9:437–448. guideline for coronary artery revascularization: a report of the American Col-
42. Michelson AD, Frelinger AL 3rd, Braunwald E, et al. Pharmacodynamic as- lege of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical
sessment of platelet inhibition by prasugrel vs. clopidogrel in the TRITON- Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2022;145:e18–e114.
TIMI 38 trial. Eur Heart J. 2009;30:1753–1763. 7. Ruff CT, Giugliano RP, Braunwald E, et al. Comparison of the efficacy and
43. Palmerini T, Della Riva D, Benedetto U, et al. Three, six, or twelve months of safety of new oral anticoagulants with warfarin in patients with atrial fibrilla-
dual antiplatelet therapy after DES implantation in patients with or without tion: a meta-analysis of randomised trials. Lancet. 2014;383:955–962.
acute coronary syndromes: an individual patient data pairwise and network 8. Virani SS, Newby LK, Arnold SV, et al. 2023 AHA/ACC/ACCP/ASPC/
meta-analysis of six randomized trials and 11 473 patients. Eur Heart J. NLA/PCNA guideline for the management of patients with chronic coro-
2017;38:1034–1043. nary disease: a report of the American Heart Association/American College
44. Natsuaki M, Watanabe H, Morimoto T, et al. An aspirin-free versus dual of Cardiology Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation.
antiplatelet strategy for coronary stenting: STOPDAPT-3 randomized trial. 2023;148:e9–e119.
Circulation. 2024;149:585–600. 9. Gargiulo G, Goette A, Tijssen J, et al. Safety and efficacy outcomes of dou-
45. Gilard M, Arnaud B, Cornily JC, et al. Influence of omeprazole on the anti- ble vs. triple antithrombotic therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation following
platelet action of clopidogrel associated with aspirin: the randomized, dou- percutaneous coronary intervention: a systematic review and meta-analysis
ble-blind OCLA (Omeprazole CLopidogrel Aspirin) study. J Am Coll Cardiol. of non-Vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulant-based randomized clinical
2008;51:256–260. trials. Eur Heart J. 2019;40:3757–3767.
46. Sibbing D, Morath T, Stegherr J, et al. Impact of proton pump inhibitors on 10. Lopes RD, Hong H, Harskamp RE, et al. Optimal antithrombotic regimens
the antiplatelet effects of clopidogrel. Thromb Haemost. 2009;101:714– for patients with atrial fibrillation undergoing percutaneous coronary inter-
719. vention: an updated network meta-analysis. JAMA Cardiology. 2020;5:582–
47. Gargiulo G, Costa F, Ariotti S, et al. Impact of proton pump inhibitors on 589.
clinical outcomes in patients treated with a 6- or 24-month dual-antiplatelet 11. Capodanno D, Di Maio M, Greco A, et al. Safety and efficacy of double anti-
therapy duration: insights from the PROlonging Dual-antiplatelet treatment thrombotic therapy with non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants in pa-
after Grading stent-induced Intimal hyperplasia studY trial. Am Heart J. tients with atrial fibrillation undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention:
2016;174:95–102. a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Am Heart Assoc. 2020;9:e017212.
48. O’Donoghue ML, Braunwald E, Antman EM, et al. Pharmacodynamic effect 12. Gargiulo G, Cannon CP, Gibson CM, et al. Safety and efficacy of double vs.
and clinical efficacy of clopidogrel and prasugrel with or without a proton- triple antithrombotic therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation with or without
pump inhibitor: an analysis of two randomised trials. Lancet. 2009;374:989– acute coronary syndrome undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention:
997. a collaborative meta-analysis of non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagu-
49. Goodman SG, Clare R, Pieper KS, et al. Association of proton pump in- lant-based randomized clinical trials. Eur Heart J Cardiovasc Pharmacother.
hibitor use on cardiovascular outcomes with clopidogrel and ticagrelor: 2021;7:F50–F60.
e854 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 85 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
13. Galli M, Andreotti F, Porto I, Crea F. Intracranial haemorrhages vs. stent 2. Marso SP, Daniels GH, Brown-Frandsen K, et al. Liraglutide and cardiovas-
thromboses with direct oral anticoagulant plus single antiplatelet agent or cular outcomes in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med. 2016;375:311–322.
triple antithrombotic therapy: a meta-analysis of randomized trials in atrial fi- 3. Neal B, Perkovic V, Mahaffey KW, et al. Canagliflozin and cardiovascular and
brillation and percutaneous coronary intervention/acute coronary syndrome renal events in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med. 2017;377:644–657.
patients. Europace. 2020;22:538–546. 4. Wiviott SD, Raz I, Bonaca MP, et al. Dapagliflozin and cardiovascular out-
14. Colleran R, Byrne RA, Ndrepepa G, et al. Antithrombotic therapy with or comes in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med. 2019;380:347–357.
without aspirin after percutaneous coronary intervention or acute coro- 5. Zinman B, Wanner C, Lachin JM, et al. Empagliflozin, cardiovascular out-
nary syndrome in patients taking oral anticoagulation: a meta-analysis and comes, and mortality in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med. 2015;373:2117–
network analysis of randomized controlled trials. Cardiovasc Revasc Med. 2128.
2022;36:99–106. 6. Gerstein HC, Sattar N, Rosenstock J, et al. Cardiovascular and renal out-
15. Alexander JH, Wojdyla D, Vora AN, et al. Risk/benefit tradeoff of antithrom- comes with efpeglenatide in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med. 2021;385:896–
botic therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation early and late after an acute 907.
coronary syndrome or percutaneous coronary intervention: insights from 7. McMurray JJV, Solomon SD, Inzucchi SE, et al. Dapagliflozin in patients with
AUGUSTUS. Circulation. 2020;141:1618–1627. heart failure and reduced ejection fraction. N Engl J Med. 2019;381:1995–
16. Lopes RD, Leonardi S, Wojdyla DM, et al. Stent thrombosis in patients with 2008.
atrial fibrillation undergoing coronary stenting in the AUGUSTUS trial. Cir- 8. Packer M, Anker SD, Butler J, et al. Cardiovascular and renal outcomes with
culation. 2020;141:781–783. empagliflozin in heart failure. N Engl J Med. 2020;383:1413–1424.
17. Smits PC, Frigoli E, Tijssen J, et al. Abbreviated antiplatelet therapy in pa- 9. Petrie MC, Verma S, Docherty KF, et al. Effect of dapagliflozin on worsening
tients at high bleeding risk with or without oral anticoagulant therapy after heart failure and cardiovascular death in patients with heart failure with and
coronary stenting: an open-label, randomized, controlled trial. Circulation. without diabetes. JAMA. 2020;323:1353–1368.
2021;144:1196–1211. 10. Solomon SD, McMurray JJV, Claggett B, et al. Dapagliflozin in heart fail-
18. Valgimigli M, Frigoli E, Heg D, et al. Dual antiplatelet therapy after PCI in ure with mildly reduced or preserved ejection fraction. N Engl J Med.
patients at high bleeding risk. N Engl J Med. 2021;385:1643–1655. 2022;387:1089–1098.
11. Anker SD, Butler J, Filippatos G, et al. Empagliflozin in heart failure with a
11.2. Reassessment of Lipid Levels Postdischarge preserved ejection fraction. N Engl J Med. 2021;385:1451–1461.
1. Benner JS, Tierce JC, Ballantyne CM, et al. Follow-up lipid tests and physi- 12. Lincoff AM, Brown-Frandsen K, Colhoun HM, et al. Semaglutide and
cian visits are associated with improved adherence to statin therapy. Phar- cardiovascular outcomes in obesity without diabetes. N Engl J Med.
macoeconomics. 2004;22 Suppl 3:13–23. 2023;389:2221–2232.
2. Baigent C, Blackwell L, Emberson J, et al. Cholesterol Treatment Trialists 13. American Society of Anesthesiologists Task Force on Preoperative Fast-
Collaboration. Efficacy and safety of more intensive lowering of LDL choles- ing. Consensus Based Guidance on Preoperative Management of Patients
terol: a meta-analysis of data from 170 000 participants in 26 randomised (Adults and Children) on Glucagon-like Peptide-1 (GLP-1) Receptor Ago-
trials. Lancet. 2010;376:1670–1681. nists. Accessed May 9, 2024. https://www.asahq.org/about-asa/newsroom/
3. Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, et al. 2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ news-releases/2023/06/american-society-of-anesthesiologists-consensus-
ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guideline on the man- based-guidance-on-preoperative.
agement of blood cholesterol: a report of the American College of Cardiol- 14. US Food and Drug Administration. FDA Revises Labels of SGLT2 In-
ogy/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. hibitors for Diabetes to Include Warnings About Too Much Acid in the
Circulation. 2019;139:e1082–e1143. Blood and Serious Urinary Tract Infections. Accessed May 9, 2024.
4. Ramsaran E, Preusse P, Sundaresan D, et al. Adherence to blood cho- https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and-availability/fda-revises-
lesterol treatment guidelines among physicians managing patients with labels-sglt2-inhibitors-diabetes-include-warnings-about-too-much-
atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Am J Cardiol. 2019;124:169– acid-blood-and-serious.
175. 15. Thompson A, Fleischmann KE, Smilowitz NR, et al. 2024 AHA/ACC/
5. Zheutlin AR, Derington CG, Herrick JS, et al. Lipid-lowering therapy use and ACS/ASNC/HRS/SCA/SCCT/SCMR/SVM guideline for periopera-
intensification among United States veterans following myocardial infarc- tive cardiovascular management for noncardiac surgery: a report of
tion or coronary revascularization between 2015 and 2019. Circ Cardiovasc the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint
Qual Outcomes. 2022;15:e008861. Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2024;150:e351–
6. Packard C, Chapman MJ, Sibartie M, et al. Intensive low-density lipoprotein e442.
cholesterol lowering in cardiovascular disease prevention: opportunities and 16. James S, Erlinge D, Storey RF, et al. Dapagliflozin in myocardial infarction
challenges. Heart. 2021;107:1369–1375. without diabetes or heart failure. NEJM Evid. 2024;3:EVIDoa2300286.
7. Wiviott SD, Cannon CP, Morrow DA, et al. Can low-density lipoprotein be too 17. Butler J, Jones WS, Udell JA, et al. Empagliflozin after acute myocardial
low? The safety and efficacy of achieving very low low-density lipoprotein infarction. N Engl J Med. 2024;390:1455–1466.
with intensive statin therapy: a PROVE IT-TIMI 22 substudy. J Am Coll Car-
diol. 2005;46:1411–1416. 11.4. Use of Chronic Colchicine
8. Giugliano RP, Wiviott SD, Blazing MA, et al. Long-term safety and ef- 1. Nidorf SM, Eikelboom JW, Budgeon CA, et al. Low-dose colchicine
ficacy of achieving very low levels of low-density lipoprotein choles- for secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease. J Am Coll Cardiol.
terol: a prespecified analysis of the IMPROVE-IT trial. JAMA Cardiol. 2013;61:404–410.
2017;2:547–555. 2. Tardif JC, Kouz S, Waters DD, et al. Efficacy and safety of low-dose colchi-
9. Giugliano RP, Keech A, Murphy SA, et al. Clinical efficacy and safety of cine after myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2019;381:2497–2505.
evolocumab in high-risk patients receiving a statin: secondary analysis 3. Tong DC, Quinn S, Nasis A, et al. Colchicine in patients with acute coro-
of patients with low LDL cholesterol levels and in those already receiv- nary syndrome: the Australian COPS randomized clinical trial. Circulation.
ing a maximal-potency statin in a randomized clinical trial. JAMA Cardiol. 2020;142:1890–1900.
2017;2:1385–1391. 4. Nidorf SM, Fiolet ATL, Mosterd A, et al. Colchicine in patients with chronic
10. Cannon CP, Braunwald E, McCabe CH, et al. Intensive versus moderate coronary disease. N Engl J Med. 2020;383:1838–1847.
lipid lowering with statins after acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. 5. Fiolet ATL, Opstal TSJ, Mosterd A, et al. Efficacy and safety of low-dose
2004;350:1495–1504. colchicine in patients with coronary disease: a systematic review and meta-
11. Lowenstern AM, Li S, Navar AM, et al. Measurement of low-density lipopro- analysis of randomized trials. Eur Heart J. 2021;42:2765–2775.
tein cholesterol levels in primary and secondary prevention patients: insights 6. Cronstein BN, Molad Y, Reibman J, et al. Colchicine alters the quantitative
from the PALM Registry. J Am Heart Assoc. 2018;7:e009251. and qualitative display of selectins on endothelial cells and neutrophils. J
12. Navar AM, Wang TY, Li S, et al. Lipid management in contemporary com- Clin Invest. 1995;96:994–1002.
munity practice: results from the Provider Assessment of Lipid Management 7. Nidorf M, Thompson PL. Effect of colchicine (0.5 mg twice daily) on high-
(PALM) Registry. Am Heart J. 2017;193:84–92. sensitivity C-reactive protein independent of aspirin and atorvastatin in
patients with stable coronary artery disease. Am J Cardiol. 2007;99:805–
11.3. SGLT-2 Inhibitors and GLP-1 Receptor Agonists 807.
1. Marso SP, Bain SC, Consoli A, et al. Semaglutide and cardiovascular out- 8. Shah B, Allen N, Harchandani B, et al. Effect of colchicine on platelet-
comes in patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med. 2016;375:1834– platelet and platelet-leukocyte interactions: a pilot study in healthy subjects.
1844. Inflammation. 2016;39:182–189.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e855
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 86 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
9. Vaidya K, Arnott C, Martinez GJ, et al. Colchicine therapy and plaque stabili- 4. Phrommintikul A, Kuanprasert S, Wongcharoen W, et al. Influenza vacci-
zation in patients with acute coronary syndrome: a CT coronary angiography nation reduces cardiovascular events in patients with acute coronary syn-
study. J Am Coll Cardiol Img. 2018;11:305–316. drome. Eur Heart J. 2011;32:1730–1735.
10. Crittenden DB, Lehmann RA, Schneck L, et al. Colchicine use is associated 5. Madjid M, Miller CC, Zarubaev VV, et al. Influenza epidemics and acute re-
with decreased prevalence of myocardial infarction in patients with gout. J spiratory disease activity are associated with a surge in autopsy-confirmed
Rheumatol. 2012;39:1458–1464. coronary heart disease death: results from 8 years of autopsies in 34 892
11. Solomon DH, Liu CC, Kuo IH, et al. Effects of colchicine on risk of car- subjects. Eur Heart J. 2007;28:1205–1210.
diovascular events and mortality among patients with gout: a cohort study 6. Warren-Gash C, Smeeth L, Hayward AC. Influenza as a trigger for acute
using electronic medical records linked with Medicare claims. Ann Rheum myocardial infarction or death from cardiovascular disease: a systematic
Dis. 2016;75:1674–1679. review. Lancet Infect Dis. 2009;9:601–610.
12. Opstal TSJ, Fiolet ATL, van Broekhoven A, et al. Colchicine in patients with 7. Dvorakova A, Poledne R. Influenza: a trigger for acute myocardial infarction.
chronic coronary disease in relation to prior acute coronary syndrome. J Am Atherosclerosis. 2004;172:391.
Coll Cardiol. 2021;78:859–866. 8. Yedlapati SH, Khan SU, Talluri S, et al. Effects of influenza vaccine on
mortality and cardiovascular outcomes in patients with cardiovascular
11.5. Immunization disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Am Heart Assoc.
1. Frobert O, Gotberg M, Erlinge D, et al. Influenza vaccination after myocardial 2021;10:e019636.
infarction: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter trial. 9. US Department of Health and Human Services. Centers for Disease
Circulation. 2021;144:1476–1484. Control and Prevention. Recommended adult immunization schedule
2. Gurfinkel EP, Leon de la Fuente R, Mendiz O, Mautner B. Flu vaccination in for ages 19 years or older. Accessed May 1, 2024. https://www.cdc.
acute coronary syndromes and planned percutaneous coronary interven- gov/vaccines/schedules/downloads/adult/adult-combined-schedule.
tions (FLUVACS) study. Eur Heart J. 2004;25:25–31. pdf.
3. Ciszewski A, Bilinska ZT, Brydak LB, et al. Influenza vaccination in second- 10. Gurfinkel EP, de la Fuente RL. Two-year follow-up of the FLU Vaccina-
ary prevention from coronary ischaemic events in coronary artery disease: tion Acute Coronary Syndromes (FLUVACS) Registry. Tex Heart Inst J.
FLUCAD study. Eur Heart J. 2008;29:1350–1358. 2004;31:28–32.
e856 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 87 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Appendix 1. Author Relationships With Industry and Other Entities—2025 ACC/AHA/ACEP/NAEMSP/SCAI Guideline for the
Management of Patients With Acute Coronary Syndromes
Ownership/ Institutional,
Committee Speakers Partnership/ Organizational, or
Member Employment Consultant Bureau Principal Personal Research Other Financial Benefit Expert Witness
Sunil V. Rao, New York University NOT RELEVANT None None NOT RELEVANT NOT RELEVANT None
Chair Langone Health System— • Medpace • NHLBI • NHLBI*
Professor of Medicine, • PHRI
Director of Interventional
Cardiology
Michelle L. Harvard Medical School— NOT RELEVANT None None NOT RELEVANT None None
O'Donoghue, Associate Professor, • Verve Therapeutics • AstraZeneca/
Vice Chair Department of Medicine; MedImmune
RELEVANT
Brigham and Women’s (DSMB)
• Amgen
Hospital—Associate • Janssen
• Novartis
Physician, Senior Pharmaceuticals
Investigator, TIMI Study (DSMB)
Group, McGillycuddy
RELEVANT
Logue Distinguished Chair
• Amgen†
in Cardiovascular Medicine
• AstraZeneca/
MedImmune†
• Merck†
• Novartis†
Marc Ruel, Vice University of Ottawa Heart RELEVANT None None RELEVANT None None
Chair Institute—Professor, Divi- • Edwards • Artivion‡
sion of Cardiac Surgery Lifesciences • Artivion*
and Department of Cellular • Medtronic • AstraZeneca*
and Molecular Medicine • XyloC or • CryoLife*
• Medtronic‡
• Medtronic*
• PhaseBio*
John H. Alex- Duke University School NOT RELEVANT None None NOT RELEVANT RELEVANT None
ander of Medicine—Professor • Akros • AbbVie (DSMB) • Boehringer Ingelheim
of Medicine, Division of • Antev • AtriCure (DSMB)
Cardiology • Artivion • Eli Lilly/Duke
• AtriCure University (DMC)
• Curis • FDA†
• Ferring Pharmaceu- • Ferring
ticals Pharmaceuticals†
• Humacyte • GlaxoSmithKline
• Janssen Pharma- (DSMB)
ceuticals • NIH‡
• Novostia • Theravance
• Portola† (DSMB)
• Teikoku Pharma
RELEVANT
• Veralox
• Artivion†
RELEVANT • Bayer†
• Bayer • Bristol Myers
• Bristol Myers Squibb†
Squibb • CSL Behring†
• Pfizer†
Usman Baber University of Oklahoma RELEVANT None None None RELEVANT NOT RELEVANT
Health Sciences Center— • Abbott • Abiomed* • Defendant, heart
Associate Professor of • Amgen • Idorsia Pharma* failure after acute
Medicine • AstraZeneca MI, 2022
• Boston Scientific • Defendant, injury
after PCI, 2022
Heather Baker, Dorothy Simon Elemen- None None None None NOT RELEVANT None
Patient tary School—Principal; • AHA SFRN‡
Representative Aurora University—Adjunct
Professor
Mauricio G. Cleveland Clinic Florida— RELEVANT None RELEVANT RELEVANT NOT RELEVANT None
Cohen Director, Structural Heart • Baylis/Boston • Accumed • Abbott • SCAI‡
Interventions; Staff Physi- Scientific Radial • Abbott*
cian, Interventional • Cordis Systems†
Cardiology, Heart &
Vascular Center
Mercedes Cruz- HealthBridge4u—Certified None None None None None None
Ruiz, Patient State Community Health
Representative Worker, Instructor
(Continued )
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e857
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 88 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Appendix 1. Continued
Ownership/ Institutional,
Committee Speakers Partnership/ Organizational, or
Member Employment Consultant Bureau Principal Personal Research Other Financial Benefit Expert Witness
Leslie L. Davis University of North None None None NOT RELEVANT NOT RELEVANT None
Carolina, Chapel Hill— • AANP • AANP
Associate Professor, PhD • ACC
Division, School of Nursing • Elsevier
• Nursing Clinics of
North America
• PCNA
• Sigma Theta Tau
International Honor
Society
• Skin, Bones, Hearts &
Private Parts
• The Journal for Nurse
Practitioners
James A. de University of Texas NOT RELEVANT None None NOT RELEVANT None None
Lemos Southwestern Medical • LianBio† • Amgen (DMC)
Center—Professor of • AstraZeneca
Medicine, Chief of RELEVANT (DSMB)
Cardiology • Cytokinetics† • Beckman Coulter
• GlaxoSmithKline† (Endpoint
Committee)†
• Eli Lilly (DSMB)†
• Janssen
Pharmaceuticals
(DSMB)†
• Merck (DSMB)
• Novo Nordisk
(DSMB)†
• Regeneron
(DSMB)
• Siemens (Endpoint
Committee)†
• Varian Medical
Systems (DSMB)
• Verve Therapeutics
(DSMB)
RELEVANT
• Abbott†
• Roche
Diagnostics†
Tracy A. Duke Heart Center— NOT RELEVANT None None NOT RELEVANT NOT RELEVANT None
DeWald Clinical Pharmacist and • Bodyport • NHLBI (PI) • Cytokinetics‡
Assistant Consulting • Novartis (Co–PI)*
Professor, Department of
Medicine
Islam Y. Elgendy University of Kentucky— None None None None None None
Assistant Professor of
Medicine
Dmitriy N. Weill Cornell Medical None None None None RELEVANT None
Feldman College, New York • Medtronic*
Presbyterian Hospital—
Professor of Medicine
Abhinav Goyal Emory University School None None None None None None
of Medicine—Professor
of Medicine (Cardiology);
Professor of Epidemiology;
Emory Rollins School
of Public Health—Chief
Quality Officer, Emory
Heart and Vascular Center,
Emory Healthcare
Ijeoma Isiadinso Emory University School None None None None NOT RELEVANT None
of Medicine—Associate • Abbott (DSMB)
Professor of Medicine; • AHA
Director of the Emory • Eli Lilly*
Center for Heart Disease • Novartis*
Prevention • University of Florida*
(Continued )
e858 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 89 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Appendix 1. Continued
Ownership/ Institutional,
Committee Speakers Partnership/ Organizational, or
Member Employment Consultant Bureau Principal Personal Research Other Financial Benefit Expert Witness
Venu Menon Cleveland Clinic Lerner None None None NOT RELEVANT None None
College of Medicine— • Edwards
Professor of Medicine; Lifesciences‖
Mehdi Razavi Endowed
Educational Chair; Director
of the Cardiac ICU; Direc-
tor of the Cardiovascular
Fellowship
David A. Harvard Medical School— NOT RELEVANT None None NOT RELEVANT None None
Morrow Professor of Medicine; • Inflammatix • InCarda (DSMB)
Brigham and Women’s • Softcell†
RELEVANT
Hospital—Section Head,
• Abbott† RELEVANT
Critical Care Cardiology,
• ARCA Biopharma • Abbott†
Cardiovascular Division
• Merck† • Abiomed†
• Novartis† • Amgen†
• Regeneron† • Anthos
• Roche† Therapeutics†
• ARCA Biopharma†
• AstraZeneca†
• Daiichi Sankyo†
• Eisai†
• GlaxoSmithKline†
• Johnson &
Johnson†
• Merck†
• Novartis†
• Pfizer†
• Regeneron†
• Roche†
• Siemens†
Debabrata Texas Tech University— NOT RELEVANT None None None NOT RELEVANT None
Mukherjee Professor and Chair, ACC† NIH‡
Department of Internal
Medicine, Chief,
Cardiovascular Medicine
Elke Platz Brigham and Women's None None None None NOT RELEVANT None
Hospital—Assistant • AHA†
Professor of Medicine, • Cambridge University
Cardiovascular Division; Press
Harvard Medical School— • CVCT Future Clinical
Associate Professor of Trialist fellowship
Emergency Medicine • European Heart
Journal-Acute
Cardiovascular Care‡
• European Journal of
Heart Failure‡
• NIH†
• Women As One‡
RELEVANT
• AstraZeneca
Susan B. Pennsylvania State None None NOT RELEVANT None NOT RELEVANT None
Promes University—Professor and • ROMTech • ACEP
Chair, Department of • McGraw Hill†
Emergency Medicine • Penn State University
Department of
Emergency Medicine†
• SAEM†
Tanveer Rab Emory University School None None None None NOT RELEVANT None
of Medicine—Professor of • ABIM
Medicine, Interventional • ACC‡
Cardiology • Medtronic
• SCAI
Sigrid Sandner Medical University of None None None None NOT RELEVANT None
Vienna—Associate • Annals of Thoracic
Professor of Cardiac Surgery, Senior Editor
Surgery • Marizyme, Inc.
(Continued )
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e859
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 90 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Appendix 1. Continued
Ownership/ Institutional,
Committee Speakers Partnership/ Organizational, or
Member Employment Consultant Bureau Principal Personal Research Other Financial Benefit Expert Witness
Yader Sandoval Minneapolis Heart Insti- RELEVANT RELEVANT NOT RELEVANT NOT RELEVANT NOT RELEVANT None
tute, Abbott Northwestern • Abbott† • Philips† • Patent‡ • AHRQ (DSMB) • JACC: Advances
Hospital—Interventional • GE Healthcare • Roche† • IFCC Committee
Cardiologist; Center for • Philips† on Clinical
Coronary Artery Disease; • Roche† Applications of
Minneapolis Heart Institute • Zoll Cardiac
Foundation—Investigator Bio-Markers‡
• NHMRC (CEAC)‡
Rachel AHA/ACC—Science and None None None None NOT RELEVANT None
Schunder§ Health Advisor, Guidelines • AHA/ACC salaried
employee
Binita Shah New York University NOT RELEVANT None None NOT RELEVANT NOT RELEVANT None
Grossman School of Medi- • Horizons • CRF (CEC) • Abiomed *
cine—Associate Professor Therapeutics • Novo Nordisk† • Alleviant*
of Medicine; VA New • Terumo Medical • The Icahn School • Circulation:
York Harbor Healthcare of Medicine at Cardiovascular
System—Interventional RELEVANT Mount Sinai (CEC) Interventions†
Cardiologist • Boston Scientific • Idorsia*
• Philips Volcano† • PHRI*
• SCAI‡
• NHLBI
• VA Office of Research
and Development
Jason P. Sto- Wake Forest School of NOT RELEVANT None None NOT RELEVANT None NOT RELEVANT
pyra Medicine—Professor, • Cytovale • AHRQ† • Defendant, tendon
Department of Emergency • Comprehensive injury, 2022
Medicine RELEVANT Research • Plaintiff, pulmonary
• Roche Associates, LLC embolus, 2022
• Forest Devices • Plaintiff, glaucoma,
• HRSA† 2023
• The Duke • Defendant, spinal
Endowment† compression, 2023
RELEVANT
• Abbott
• Chiesi
• Genetesis
• Polymedco
Amy W. Talbot§ AHA/ACC—Science and None None None None NOT RELEVANT None
Health Advisor, Guidelines • AHA/ACC salaried
employee
Jacqueline E. Cleveland Clinic— NOT RELEVANT NOT None NOT RELEVANT NOT RELEVANT None
Tamis-Holland Interventional Cardiologist • Gaffney Educa- RELEVANT • PHRI • AHA‡
and Institute Director for tional Trust • EBIX‡ • Shockwave • Bronx Lebanon Hos-
Acute Cardiac Care Medical‡ pital‡
• Concepts Medical*
• Encore Medical
Education
• NYS
• SCAI‡
• Simply K Events
Pam R. Taub University of California at NOT RELEVANT None NOT RELEVANT NOT RELEVANT NOT RELEVANT None
San Diego—Professor of • Jazz • Epirium Bio† • Argenx† • Milestone
Medicine; Director of Step Pharmaceuticals† • AtriCure† Pharmaceuticals
Family Foundation Cardiac • Lexicon • Dexcom
Rehabilitation and Well- Pharmaceuticals • Regeneron†
ness Center
RELEVANT RELEVANT
• Amgen • Merck
• Bayer† • Novartis†
• Boehringer
Ingelheim†
• CSL Behring
• Edwards
Lifesciences
• Eli Lilly and
Company†
• Esperion†
• Janssen
Pharmaceuticals‡
• Medtronic
• Novartis†
• Novo Nordisk†
• Sanofi-Aventis
(Continued )
e860 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 91 ---
AND
GUIDELINES
CLINICAL
STATEMENTS
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Appendix 1. Continued
Ownership/ Institutional,
Committee Speakers Partnership/ Organizational, or
Member Employment Consultant Bureau Principal Personal Research Other Financial Benefit Expert Witness
Marlene S. Wil- Johns Hopkins Bayview NOT RELEVANT None None None NOT RELEVANT None
liams Medical Center—Clinical • Haemonetics • Zoll
Director of Cardiology and
Associate Professor of
Medicine
This table represents all relationships of committee members with industry and other entities that were reported by authors, including those not deemed to be relevant
to this document, at the time this document was under development. The table does not necessarily reflect relationships with industry at the time of publication. A person
is deemed to have a significant interest in a business if the interest represents ownership of ≥5% of the voting stock or share of the business entity, or ownership of
≥$5000 of the fair market value of the business entity; or if funds received by the person from the business entity exceed 5% of the person’s gross income for the previ-
ous year. Relationships that exist with no financial benefit are also included for the purpose of transparency. Relationships in this table are modest unless otherwise noted.
Please refer to https://www.acc.org/guidelines/about-guidelines-and-clinical-documents/relationships-with-industry-policy for definitions of disclosure categories or
additional information about the ACC/AHA Disclosure Policy for Writing Committees.
*This disclosure was entered under the Clinical Trial Enroller category in the ACC’s disclosure system. To appear in this category, the author acknowledges that there
is no direct or institutional relationship with the trial sponsor as defined in the (ACCF or AHA/ACC) Disclosure Policy for Writing Committees.
†Significant relationship.
‡No financial benefit.
§Rachel Schunder and Amy Talbot are AHA/ACC joint staff members and acted as the Science and Health Advisors for the “2025 ACC/AHA/ACEP/NAEMSP/
SCAI Guideline for the Management of Patients With Acute Coronary Syndromes.” No relevant relationships to report. Nonvoting author on recommendations and not
included/counted in the RWI balance for this committee.
‖The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services reported research funding from Edwards Lifesciences to Dr. Menon in 2023 for the ASCEND Study, Commence
Pulmonary Study, and the ViV Surveillance Study, which Dr. Menon disputes.
AANP indicates American Association of Nurse Practitioners; ABIM, American Board of Internal Medicine; ACC, American College of Cardiology; ACCF, American
College of Cardiology Foundation; ACEP, American College of Emergency Physicians; AHA, American Heart Association; AHRQ, Agency for Healthcare Research and
Quality; CEAC, Clinical Events Adjudication Committee; CEC, Clinical Events Committee; CRF, Cardiovascular Research Foundation; CVCT, CardioVascular Clinical Trial-
ists; DMC, Data Monitoring Committee; DSMB, data and safety monitoring board; HRSA, Health Resources and Services Administration; ICU, intensive care unit; IFCC,
International Federation of Clinical Chemistry; JACC, Journal of the American College of Cardiology; MI, myocardial infarction; NHLBI, National Heart, Lung, and Blood
Institute; NAEMSP, National Association of EMS Physicians; NHMRC, National Health and Medical Research Council; NIH, National Institutes of Health; NYS, New York
state; PCI, percutaneous coronary intervention; PCNA, Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association; PHRI, Population Health Research Institute; PI, principal investiga-
tor; SAEM, Society for Academic Emergency Medicine; SCAI, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions; SFRN, Strategically Focused Research Network;
TIMI, Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction; and VA, Veterans Affairs.
Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309 April 1, 2025 e861
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

--- PÁGINA 92 ---
STNEMETATS
LACINILC
SENILEDIUG
DNA
Rao et al 2025 Acute Coronary Syndromes Guideline
Appendix 2. Reviewer Relationships With Industry and Other Entities—2025 ACC/AHA/ACEP/NAEMSP/SCAI Guideline for the
Management of Patients With Acute Coronary Syndromes
Institutional,
Ownership/ Organizational, or
Speakers Partnership/ Personal Other Financial
Reviewer Representation Employment Consultant Bureau Principal Research Benefit Expert Witness
Hani Jneid, Official University of Texas Medical None None None None None None
Chair Reviewer— Branch—John Sealy
ACC/AHA Joint Distinguished Centennial Chair
Committee on in Cardiology; Professor and
Clinical Prac- Chief, Division of Cardiovascular
tice Guidelines Medicine; Medical Director,
Cardiovascular Service Line
Bruce Organizational Old Dominion University— None None None None • AAEM None
M. Lo Reviewer— Professor/Assistant Program
ACEP Director; Sentara Norfolk
General Hospital—Chief, Depart-
ment of Emergency Medicine
Frederick Organizational University of Utah— Director, • Faraday None None None None • Defendant, perforation during
Welt Reviewer—SCAI Cardiac Catheterization Pharma- angioplasty and stent
Laboratory ceuticals placement, 2024
• Xenter, Inc. • Defendant, death related to
spontaneous bleed, 2024
• Defendant, iatrogenic
dissection of right coronary
artery, 2024
Craig J. Content University of Kentucky—Assistant None None None None None None
Beavers Reviewer Adjunct Professor
Theresa M. Content University of South Florida— None None None None None None
Beckie Reviewer Professor
James Content University of New Mexico— • AMA None None None • ZOLL Medical None
Blanken- Reviewer Professor; University of New • FDA
ship Mexico Health Sciences—
Director of Cardiac
Catheterization Laboratories
Deborah Content UT Southwestern Medical • Celecor† None None None • Abbott Canada None
Diercks Reviewer Center—Professor • Emergencies in
Medicine
• Quidel Corp*
• Siemens
• Tosoh
Biomedical*
Clauden Content Winter Haven Hospital—Clinical None None None None None None
Louis Reviewer Associate Physician
Faisal M. Content Emory University—Director of None None None None • Heart Rhythm None
Merchant Reviewer Cardiac Electrophysiology Society
Noreen T. Content University of Illinois at Chicago— None None None None None None
Nazir Reviewer Assistant Professor of Medicine
Derek So Content University of Ottawa Heart Insti- None None None None None None
Reviewer tute—Cardiologist
Matthew Content Mount Sinai Fuster Heart None None None None • McGraw-Hill None
Tomey Reviewer Hospital—Interventional/ Companies
Critical Care Cardiologist • AHA
This table represents all relationships of reviewers with industry and other entities that were reported at the time of peer review, including those not deemed to be
relevant to this document, at the time this document was under review. The table does not necessarily reflect relationships with industry at the time of publication. A
person is deemed to have a significant interest in a business if the interest represents ownership of ≥5% of the voting stock or share of the business entity, or ownership
of ≥$5000 of the fair market value of the business entity; or if funds received by the person from the business entity exceed 5% of the person’s gross income for the
previous year. Relationships that exist with no financial benefit are also included for the purpose of transparency. Relationships in this table are modest unless otherwise
noted. Names are listed in alphabetical order within each category of review. Please refer to https://www.acc.org/guidelines/about-guidelines-and-clinical-documents/
relationships-with-industry-policy for definitions of disclosure categories or additional information about the ACC/AHA Disclosure Policy for Writing Committees.
*Significant relationship.
†No financial benefit.
AAEM indicates American Academy of Emergency Medicine; ACC, American College of Cardiology; ACEP, American College of Emergency Physicians; AHA, Ameri-
can Heart Association; AMA, American Medical Association; FDA, US Food and Drug Administration; NAEMSP, National Association of EMS Physicians; SCAI, Society
for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions; and UT, University of Texas.
e862 April 1, 2025 Circulation. 2025;151:e771–e862. DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0000000000001309
Downloaded
from
http://ahajournals.org
by
on
August
25,
2026

